A high court sitting in Kisii on Tuesday dismissed the petitions challenging the election of County Woman Rep Dorice Donya Aburi, alias Toto, and that of Kitutu Chache South MP Anthony Kibagendi citing lack of evidence. For Aburi, Judge Stella Mutuku said all the claims filed in the petition failed the test of truth. "The petition failed to the standard of proof and substantially relied on frivolous claims," she said. She said that the issues raised in the petition such as noncompliance and irregularities were not backed up with strong evidence to overturn Toto's victory, the Judge noted. The petition was filed by voters Job Nyabuto and Ezekiel Okenye. In their petition, they claimed voter bribery, coordinated violence, and electoral malpractices on the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. In the court submissions, they said the malpractices helped steal victory in favour of the respondent. Among those who testify against Aburi were poll agents of former Woman Rep Janet Ongera and Everline Ogendo. Mutuku in a virtual ruling Tuesday said none of the claims stood the test of truth and thus the decision to dismiss it. IEBC, the second respondent in the petition had also defended itself and said it conducted a free fair and credible poll. The commission said they conducted training to all agents and how to register claims with IEBC on any irregularities and no claim was registered with them, officials told the court. "The two petitioners failed to prove to this court on their petition which did not meet the threshold of the standard of proof," said Mutuku. The petitioners were thus slapped with Sh3m fine. Half of the money will go to Toto and the remainder go to IEBC and the returning officer. Aburi got  190,277 votes against her closest competitor Janet Ongera who got 69,995. There were 12 candidates in the poll. Aburi lauded the court for upholding her victory. She also praised her legal team for putting up a strong defence that lead in the court upholding victory. Separately, Justice Thande Mugure also dismissed the petition challenging the election of Anthony Kibagendi as Kitutu Chache MP. Kibagendi was elected on ODM ticket. The Judge noted weak evidence in the claims. She, however, slapped IEBC with Sh1.5 m fine in favour of the MP over some errors in the process, especially in the documentation of data. The petition was filed by Andrew Maubi (Wiper) and Kenani Omwando (Independent). Thande described the grounds of the petition as weak to invalidate the entire poll ruling the Tuesday ruling. Both judgements were read virtually. Kibagendi had been declared the winner by IEBC with 14,478 votes against his closest challenger, Andrew Maubi who scored 10,378. Eric Abuga emerged third with 4,131 votes. Omwando who had run on an independent ticket secured 3,471 to emerge fourth. In their petition, they argued massive irregularities rendering the exercise 'gross, fatally defective and defeating the very purpose o the country's electoral process'. They spoke of alterations in the declaration forms 35 A and 35 B. They told the court of voters casting votes in excess of those registered in some polling stations. Other irregularities cited were violence. On Tuesday, Mugure said while there were some errors of commissions by IEBC, they lacked the threshold required to invalidate the poll. Kibagendi celebrated the victory and promised the electorate more zest as he undertakes development.