Kenya Sevens' stars Brian Tanga and Kevin Wekesa are likely to come off the bench for the Kenya Cup final against KCB on Saturday in Kakamega. The duo, who have been with Shujaa for the better part of the season playing in the World Sevens Series, are expected to add firepower to the bench for what is expected to be an explosive final. Kabras head coach Carlos Katwya has said his charges are ready for what promises to be a cracker of a final. "We are ready for the finals. Our target is to make our fans and sponsor happy and the boys understand that better,” said Katywa. He added: “We beat KCB in the regular season in Nairobi, so they are coming as underdogs. We shall not underrate them despite our win against them two weeks ago when we beat them 29-23.” The South African tactician held that playing the final on their familiar pitch is good for both the players and the supporters. The last time the final was hosted at the Kakamega Showground was in 2019. West Kenya Sugar Company managing director, Tejveer Rai said the looming final will be like no other. “I am happy the boys have again achieved their target of reaching the final because of sheer determination,” said Tej. According to Tej,  the club has attracted supporters from across the country and changed positively the local rugby landscape which was only a preserve of Nairobi clubs Club chairman Edward Esilaba said they are ready to host the final. Kabras have consistently graced the finals since 2015. "We expect Kabras Sugar lovers from various parts of the country to attend the finals and offer their support,” said Esilaba. Retaining quality players has worked for Kabras Sugar, according to Esilaba. Among the players, who featured for Kabras Sugar in last year’s final against Menengai Oilers and are again available for the Saturday final are; Hillary Mwanjilwa, Eugene Sifuna, Teddy Akala, Ephraim Odour, Asuman Mugerwa, Hillary Odhiambo and Brian Juma. Others are Dan Sikuta, Jeanson Misoga, Barry Robinson, Bryson Adaka, George Nyambua, Ntabeni Dukisa and Jone Kubu. The Kakamega-based club has been allocated space within Kakamega Forest for tree planting in a bid to conserve the environment. Kakamega Forest is the only tropical rainforest in Kenya and many locals have lately invaded it by cutting trees and burning charcoal. “We shall plant trees twice the number of points we would have recorded in the 2022/23 season in Kakamega Forest. Besides playing rugby, we are also sensitive to our surroundings as a team and our playground is within the forest,” said Esilaba.