Kisii Governor Simba Arati says only  Sh235 m of the total  Sh 1.6 billion being claimed as pending bills are genuine. A report by a special committee released Thursday details significant shenanigans in many of the contracts tendered out by the devolved unit in a period spanning ten years. Of the Sh235 still, Sh130 m is being claimed by a section of contractors without proof of papers. Arati said there shall be further scrutiny of their work before payments are done to them. The County boss warned of legal consequences for those who want to defraud the County of public money with dubious claims. Such, he added, there shall be little mercy to them "Forgiveness is from God but for such as these, the law must take its course. We must surrender them to the authorities, no angel is coming to make things right if we can't do so today," said Arati. During the inspection, the committee found dozens of the purported projects undone, some left incomplete years but reflected on paper as done. The committee was especially astounded that some contractors had the audacity to ask for full payments without work to show for it. There were instances where some projects like Maran stadium in Kitutu Chache North is reported as complete yet only a knee-high pillar is erected at one corner of the field. On Wednesday, Arati said people behind such mischief must face the music. "I sympathize with patients who went home without drugs because money was being sunk into people's pockets. I pity people who could not access clean water because of such crooks," stated Arati. The committee on pending bills was established under the Kenya Gazette to help audit and authenticate the projects done by various contractors. Arati said the establishment of the committee was not meant to witch hunt but to seal leakages and ensure only credible contractors are paid. It was chaired by. S Nyakundi and seconded by Hillary Nyaanga. The exercise, said Arati, was necessary to help the County undertake due diligence in payment of the contractors. He said already it has pointed out possible ghost contractors and suppliers who would not be paid a penny. The release of the pending bills status report comes hot on the heels of the unveiling of a staff audit report showing the existence of hundreds of ghost workers. At least 1300 names were unearthed in the report.