Ulinzi Stars will be fighting tooth and nail this season to catapult themselves back into the international stage, according to assistant coach Vincent Otieno. The Nakuru-based soldiers last graced continental football in 2017 when they flew the country's flag at the Caf Confederation Cup where they were bundled out in the qualifying round by Egypt's Smouha on a 4-3 aggregate score. Although they are currently placed in the middle of the table in the seventh spot, Otieno reckons they can hit the accelerator and jump to the contention bracket. "The gap between us and leaders Gor Mahia is not as big and if we work hard enough, we can catch up in the second leg. Our end-of-season goal is to compete at the continental level," Otieno stated. The coach has urged competition favourites K'Ogalo not to celebrate just yet, saying it is still too early to pop the cork. "Since the race is tight and the margin between the top team and those chasing is not as large, everything is possible from number one to seven, therefore our objective will be to close the gap in the second leg. "Ulinzi experienced a torrid start to the season but they seemed to have finally found their footing in the cut-throat competition judging by their recent impressive run. Otieno attributes the club's turnaround to a motivated group of players who are eager to learn and punch above their weight to reach new heights. "Thus far, we've worked as a team, which has been quite beneficial. Individually, some players have shown amazing growth, but as a team, we have grown tremendously. "Last season we were surrendering numerous goals but we are tight this season. We brought in a 19-year-old goalie, who has performed admirably. The team's overall performance has improved," he noted. Otieno hailed the club's ardent fans, reiterating their invaluable contribution to the team's success. "The supporters pushed us well in the first leg, and as our appreciation, we will do our best to improve in the second leg," Otieno stated. The Benard Mwalala-trained team is presently seventh on the log with 28 points heading into the second leg against Kakamega Homeboyz at the Ulinzi Sports Complex on Wednesday. Their most recent appearance was in the Mozzart Bet Cup when they defeated Kajiado FC to advance to the competition's last 16. In other second-leg matches scheduled for Wednesday, leaders Gor Mahia will flex muscles with second-placed Nzoia Sugar at Sudi stadium, Bungoma in the top-of-the-table clash. AFC Leopards have a date with Wazito at Nyayo stadium while Kariobangi Sharks and Kenya Police will lock horns at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Sofapaka will dare Mathare United at Kasarani Annex as Posta Rangers make a trip to Bukhungu stadium in Kakamega to honor a tie against Vihiga Bullets. Third-placed KCB welcome Talanta at Kasarani Annex.