Opposition Chief Raila Odinga will this week lead to more anti-government rallies across four counties. According to a plan released by ODM communication director Philip Etale on Sunday, the anti-Kenya Kwanza government rallies will start upon the expiry of the  Wednesday deadline. Raila on February 22, 2023, gave the Ruto administration a 14-day ultimatum to address his concerns about the high cost of living, electoral injustice, and skewed sharing of state jobs, of which the deadline is on Wednesday, March 8, 2023. Raila had asked his supporters to stand firm as upon the expiry, street protests will begin. As a result, next week, Raila will lead the Aizmio La Umoja One coalition in rallies starting on Friday. The first rally will be held in Migori county in Raila’s backyard region of Nyanza. Over the weekend, the anti-Ruto rallies will be held in Narok County, followed by Mombasa on Sunday. The Aizmio team will then stage a rally in Kilfii on Monday . The Opposition chief has remained firm that if the demands he gave in the 14-day ultimatum are not met,he would mount mass action against the current regime. Last Sunday, Raila asked his supporters to troop to Nairobi for the peaceful demonstration, setting the stage for a confrontation with the police. Earlier this week, Raila spelled out three demands President William Ruto must meet for them to have any ceasefire talks. Speaking on Tuesday, Raila said Ruto must first agree to open the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) servers. He went on to say that the head of state should also stop the ongoing recruitment of the IEBC commissioners. The former Prime Minister added that Ruto must ensure the cost of living comes down because Kenyans are suffering. "One, he must agree to open the server. Stop recruitment of IEBC commissioners and three is the issue of the cost of living in the country. "Kenyans are suffering seriously. Some of them cannot put food on the table. Children are not going to school. The price of basic commodities unga, fuel is too high for the people," Raila said on KTN News. He noted that as things stand, there are no grounds for them to dialogue.