ODM party leader Raila Odinga is expected to lead a mega rally and protest in Mombasa on Sunday. Raila will jet in Mombasa on Saturday ahead of the scheduled rally to take place at the famous Caltex Grounds in Likoni. Addressing the media at Treasury Square on Friday afternoon, Mombasa ODM branch secretary general Geoffrey Busaka confirmed that the rally is on and that they were ready to welcome their party leader. “I want to confirm to you that our party leader will be here to lead us for a mega economic rally on Sunday,” said Busaka. Busaka said that the Sunday rally is for all those who feel disenfranchised by the President William Ruto-led regime and feel the need to push for economic reforms in the country. He reiterated that Mombasa is still an ODM zone as he rallied supporters within the county to turn out in large numbers. He said that ODM as a party does not recognize Ruto as the President, saying that they believe Raila’s victory was stolen in the August 2022 general elections. “We shall continue questioning the legitimacy of Ruto, we only recognize ‘Baba’ (Odinga) as our fifth president because we know his victory was stolen,” Busaka said. He further called on the police to provide them with protection during the rally, warning them against inciting the public by confronting them. Busaka said that the rallies and protests are peaceful, alluding that it is the police who incite the crowds to riot. ODM Mombasa youth league leader Zubeida Mikwara called on the youth to maintain calm during the rally, assuring the business community in Likoni that no property will be destroyed. “This is going to be a peaceful rally like the ones already taking place in other parts of the country. I assure you no youth will be used to destroy or distract any business,” said Mikwara. Her sentiments were echoed by the ODM Mombasa women leader Nuru Ramadhan who called on her fellow women to turn out in large numbers and join the movement pushing for better economic times. “Everyone one is affected by the tough economic times whether in Azimio or Kenya kwanza, we need to unite and help baba push this course. We are tired of Ruto’s empty promises,” she said. Raila on Thursday unveiled the youth-led Movement for the Defense of Democracy in Nairobi saying that he will not relent until the government yields to his demands. This was after the 14-day ultimatum he issued to the government to address his demands expired on Wednesday. He took the brigade to Migori on Friday to continue to pile pressure on the government. And on Saturday he was in Narok and the team will head to Kilifi on Monday after the Mombasa rally. A mega protest is expected in Nairobi on March 20.