Britain's Cameron Norrie continued his recent good form with a straight-set victory over Chinese Taipei's Wu Tung-lin in Indian Wells, California. Tenth seed Norrie, 27, broke Wu's serve four times to claim a 6-2 6-4 win. The 2021 champion will meet Matteo Berrettini in the third round after the Italian beat Japan's Taro Daniel. It was Norrie's first match since beating world number two Carlos Alcaraz in the final of the Rio Open to claim his fifth ATP title. Elsewhere, Australia's Jordan Thompson knocked out Greek second seed Stefanos Tsitsipas, winning tie-breaks in the first and third sets to claim a 7-6 (7-0) 4-6 7-6 (7-5) victory. There were no such problems for Norway's third seed Casper Ruud, who made it through to the third round with a 6-2 6-3 win against Argentina's Diego Schwartzman. Russian fifth seed Daniil Medvedev, fresh from back-to-back tournament victories in Rotterdam, Qatar and Dubai, breezed past American Brandon Nakashima 6-4 6-3. Norrie, the world number 12, is one of four Britons still left in the men's singles draw. Andy Murray will play Moldova's lucky loser Radu Albot in the second round on Saturday, while British Davis Cup team-mates Dan Evans and Jack Draper face each other. Murray had been due to play Spain's Pablo Carreno Busta but the world number 17 withdrew from the tournament. Evans has also made it through to the last 16 of the men's doubles along with Australian partner John Peers. Jamie Murray and Australia's Michael Venus joined them after beating sixth seeds Marcel Granollers and Horacio Zeballos 6-3 6-4. In the women's tournament, Australian Open champion Aryna Sabalenka took just 65 minutes to see off Russia's Evgeniya Rodina, winning 6-2 6-0 in just her second tournament since claiming a maiden Grand Slam title. The Belarusian will play Ukraine's world number 95 Lesia Tsurenko in the third round. Last year's Indian Wells runner-up Maria Sakkari came from behind to beat American Shelby Rogers 2-6 6-4 6-0, while sixth seed Coco Gauff powered past Spain's Cristina Bucsa 6-2 6-4. Britain's Emma Raducanu will play Poland's 20th seed Magda Linette in the second round on Saturday.