National Assembly Speaker Moses Wetang’ula said the Mulembe Nation is fully in government and ready for the meaningful development it has been yearning for. He was speaking on Sunday while presiding over a funds drive at St. Patrick Sisokhe Catholic Church in Navakholo Constituency, Kakamega County. The speaker called upon residents of western region to ignore any attempts by any person to try and dupe them into joining the opposition through unnecessary demos. He called for a united Luhya leadership in a bid to consolidate the region's development in order to enhance their political Journey. "When we come together as a community our strength is felt, our bargaining power is stronger and our development is visible," he said. Wetang’ula asked residents to forget the many Luhya sub-tribes that have often tried to divide the region adding that they were all one family with one common goal. "I salute our MPs for the unity that they are demonstrating of late by coming together for the community's sake," he said. "I also like to thank our MCAs across all our western region's counties of Busia, Vihiga, Kakamega, Transzoia and Bungoma for being our able grassroots foot soldiers who champion our region's unity. "In a few weeks’ time, I will be having a meeting with all of you to discuss our future politics as a region,” he said. “Being together is a good beginning, walking together is progress and sticking together is a great success." He offered to support those who are beginners in politics telling them he was their political father and that he was ready to hold their hands. "I encourage our leaders to shun divisive politics and pull together to ensure that our region attains development," he said. The Speaker told the gathering that President Ruto had not yet presented his first budget in Parliament for consideration promising them that when he does the budget their development agendas will be considered. "We took over a government that had huge debts. As a country, we are currently experiencing the worst drought in many years since 1986 and has adversely affected farming, livestock, and the wildlife in our parks hence pausing a challenge in uplifting the economy. He cautioned the public that disruptions in the form of protests will not help but instead will worsen the current situation. He stated that plans were underway to revive sugar companies in the western block including Mumias, Nzoia and other stalled road projects to be able to help create employment opportunities, boost economic growth and uplift the lives of the people. While addressing the congregation, Speaker Wetang’ula sought confidence from the public asking them to trust their leadership noting most leaders had been reelected, a sign of trust by the public bestowed to them. “Kenya is ours, Kenyans’ problems are ours and we must find a local solution to our own problems." He emphasized that the public should not be swayed into political protests because leaders always work together. “The constitution of Kenya 2010 under article 45 addresses the issue of LGBTQ by saying that the family is the strong form of foundation of our society," he emphasised. Hon. Emanuel Wangwe who hosted Speaker Wetang’ula and other leaders at his constituency asked the clergy to always pray for leaders and the country at large for the good of the socio–economic development. Wangwe who is serving a third term appreciated residents of Navakholo for supporting his leadership and committing to support Wetang’ula towards achieving his leadership desires as the Speaker of the National Assembly. He called for a united Luhya leadership to pull together and work as a team. He further joined other leaders in condemning the current wave of LGBTQ that has dominated the country. Leaders present at the function included, Kakamega Governor Fernandez Barasa, Deputy Governor Ayub Savula, Sen. Bonny Khalwale, Jack Wamboka, Aseka Christopher, Benard Shinal, Innocent Mugabe, Fred Ikana, Nabii Nabwera, Titus Khamala, Malulu Injendi,  John Walter Owino, John Chikati, John Waluke, a host of MCAs among other leaders in the region.