Opposition leader Raila Odinga has now made a U-turn on the planned expulsion of nine rebel MPs who visited President William Ruto at State House a few weeks ago. Raila said the MPs have written to him explaining why they visited the president and his deputy Rigathi Gachagua. He said they have also affirmed that they still belong to the Orange party. The former Prime Minister added that the party initially planned to take action against the rebel MPs but he stopped the process. "The ones you are talking about from Nyanza, they were there when Ruto went to Nyanza and they say that Ruto had promised certain projects which they are following and that's why they went to State House. I've received written communication from them saying they did not defect from ODM and they went because they are following up on those projects," he said. "Felix Odiwuor (Jalang'o) says the president is his friend. He has not said he has left ODM. The party wanted to take disciplinary action against them but I am the one who has said we give them a benefit of doubt because going to State House is not a crime as long as you make it known to your party." Raila, however, said that if they want to join other parties they will not be the first to defect. He added that they must follow the law. "If they want to move it's not going to be the first time. We used to have defections in those days. In those days people were doing what was required by law. If you have moved away from the party that sponsored you to parliament you have to resign and go and contest elections in your new party." On February 11, Raila asked the rebel MPs hobnobbing with president William Ruto’s administration to shape up or ship out. As part of the resolutions following a two-day Azimio parliamentary group meeting, the coalition warned that it will take firm and decisive action against MPs betraying the opposition’s course. “Azimio, therefore, asks its elected leaders to shape up or ship out. There will be no two ways about this,” the coalition said in a statement. The MPs included Senator Tom Ojienda, MPs Gideon Ochanda, Caroli Omondi, Elisha Odhiambo, Paul Abuor, Mark Nyamita and Phelix Odiwuor alias Jalang'o visited Ruto at State House.