Boris Johnson may have misled Parliament over the Partygate scandal, according to a committee of MPs investigating him. Evidence strongly suggests breaches of Covid rules would have been "obvious" to Mr Johnson, the privileges committee said in an update. The former PM was among those fined by police for breaking lockdown rules at gatherings in government buildings. He said there was no evidence he "knowingly" misled Parliament. Mr Johnson, who will appear before the committee later this month, said he had "believed implicitly" all events were within the rules. MPs voted in April last year to launch the committee's inquiry, after opposition parties accused Mr Johnson of misleading Parliament over what he knew about lockdown parties. The former prime minister repeatedly denied Covid lockdown rules were broken during gatherings in Downing Street when asked in the Commons. However, an inquiry by senior civil servant Sue Gray later found widespread rule-breaking had taken place, and Mr Johnson was among 83 people fined by police for attending law-breaking events. On Friday, the committee published its initial report, including some previously unseen photos of Downing Street events and a number of WhatsApp messages from officials. It said evidence it had seen suggested Mr Johnson may have misled MPs in four comments to the Commons it is examining as part of its inquiry. The report says Mr Johnson "did not correct" misleading statements he made in the Commons at the "earliest opportunity", as would have been expected from an MP. The report found "evidence strongly suggests that breaches of guidance would have been obvious to Mr Johnson at the time he was at the gatherings". It also said there was "evidence that those who were advising Mr Johnson about what to say to the press and in the House were themselves struggling to contend that some gatherings were within the rules". The inquiry had been held up by a "reluctance" from Mr Johnson's government "to provide unredacted evidence". Some material "had been redacted even though it was already in the public domain," according to the report. The unredacted disclosure of all relevant material was finally provided by Rishi Sunak's government on 18 November. The committee said it will take the findings of a report by Ms Gray into account. It emerged this week that Ms Gray has quit the civil service and is set to become chief of staff to Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer, prompting claims from Tory MPs that she was politically biased. Mr Johnson told BBC News he did not "know or suspect" that events broke the rules when he spoke about them in the Commons. He added that "after ten months of effort" the committee had not produced evidence "to suggest otherwise". In an earlier statement, he said it was "surreal to discover that the committee proposes to rely on evidence culled and orchestrated" by Sue Gray. "I leave it to others to decide how much confidence may now be placed in her inquiry and in the reports that she produced," he added. In response to Mr Johnson's comments the committee released a statement stating its report "is not based on the Sue Gray report" and will take in new material from the government and evidence from witnesses. In his statement, Mr Johnson added: "It is clear from this report that I have not committed any contempt of parliament. "That is because there is no evidence in the report that I knowingly or recklessly misled parliament, or that I failed to update parliament in a timely manner. "When I told the House that the rules and the guidance had been followed, that was my honest belief." If Mr Johnson is found to have misled Parliament, he could be suspended as MP or expelled, creating a by-election. But the committee's findings, and any sanction on Mr Johnson, would have to be approved by a vote in parliament. Labour's Deputy Leader Angela Rayner said the committee's report "is absolutely damning on the conduct of Boris Johnson, not just in the crime but the cover up". Ms Rayner said: "While families up and down the country dutifully followed the rules unable to visit loved ones, missing weddings and funerals, Boris Johnson was repeatedly holding drinks and social events at the heart of government - events attended by the current prime minister." Liberal Democrat deputy leader Daisy Cooper accused Mr Johnson of t