Kenya has been known to be home to the greatest runners globally, from Paul Tergat, Eliud Kipchoge, Pamela Jelimo, and Samuel Wanjiru among other household names. So what makes these runners great? what is the secret ingredient? Let's dive in! Kenya has high-altitude areas such as Iten, Kaptagat, and Bomet these areas range anywhere from 2000 to 4000 feet above sea level in most areas, providing the ideal environment for endurance training. The high altitude reduces the amount of oxygen available, which causes the body to produce more red blood cells, improving the athlete's endurance capacity. Running is deeply ingrained in Kenyan culture, especially in the rift valley province, many children grow up running long distances as a means of transportation or to get to school. This early exposure to running and the culture surrounding it provides a foundation for future athletic success. In fact, most athletes attest to this as being the core foundation of their careers. Kenyan athletes typically consume high-carbohydrate foods, which are essential for endurance athletes. Ugali, a cornmeal-based dish, is a staple food in Kenya and is rich in carbohydrates, providing athletes with the energy they need to run long distances. Balanced diets fuel the success of these athletes alongside the consumption of foods that are not processed. Kenyan runners typically follow a rigorous training regimen that focuses on developing endurance, strength, and speed. Many Kenyan runners also train in groups, which provides a supportive environment and helps athletes push themselves to their limits. In fact, Eluid Kipchoge said in an interview with Tcs London marathon that ''At the end of the day all of you have achieved more than what you could have achieved when you are alone'' While genetics may play a role in the success of Kenyan runners, it is important to note that genetics alone cannot account for their success. Other factors, such as those listed above, also contribute significantly to their success. Their lean bodies and light legs have been attributed to more endurance and steady maintenance of speed.