Former Interior CS Fred Matiang'i will on Tuesday appear at the DCI headquarters on Kiambu Road an hour earlier than directed. His lawyer Danstan Omari told the Star on the phone that he has written to the summoning officer to inform him of the changes. "We are confirming that we shall be there, there is nothing for the CS to hide," he said. Matiang'i is wanted for questioning concerning the alleged police raid at his home in Karen on the night of February 8. Police and all arresting authorities denied involvement in the alleged raid terming it a hoax. In his letter, detective Michael Sang directed Matiang'i to appear before him "at 9.30 am without fail". "Failure to comply with the requisition constitutes an offence liable to prosecution. The letter was served to Omari in court at 1.15 pm on Monday. Omari said the former CS is ready to record his statement concerning the raid saying he could not have done so previously since the summons issued on February 23 were never served to them. "We have never gone there because we have never been served officially. I was served today, we confirmed we are law-abiding citizens. We will take the CS there tomorrow," Omari said. Through Musyoki Mogaga and Co Advocates, Matiang'i told the DCI his lawyers and himself will be engaged in other matters at 9 am, the time he was summoned to appear. "Unfortunately we are constrained to seek that the date of appearance be deferred to March, Tuesday 7, 8am owing to prior arranged court dates on our part," the lawyers said, They added that the former CS will also be handling his other prior arrangements which he can't defer due to the short notice of the summon. "The notice is fairly short and our client and ourselves might not be in a position to be present without offending our prior arrangements," the lawyers said. Matiangi' jetted back into the country on Saturday night after a two-week trip to the UK for private reasons. The Immigration Department on February 28 revealed that he left the country a week before he was summoned. "The subject departed on February 19, 2023, through JKIA  on KLM flight number  KL566," reads the letter.