The Institute of Engineering of Kenya has asked the government and county governments to ensure that all programs and solutions are designed to include discrete sustainability measures. IEK South Rift Branch chairperson, Eng Harrison Mutai said where partnerships are involved, projects must define the number of local personnel involved, and their specific roles. He said of training and capacity-building skills should be provided for staff in such projects to ensure sustainability once the programs are completed. Speaking during the World Engineering Day celebrations at Nyayo Gardens in Nakuru, Mutai said local experts should be involved in designing which roles shall be done by Kenyan experts and which can be done by foreigners. “Statements like 40 per cent local participation is good but may not be adequate in safeguarding jobs for Kenyan experts and are difficult to implement with competing priorities in contracts like project timelines,” he said. He said IEK South Rift was ready to partner with the county governments in scrutinising project documentation before contract sign-off for safeguarding employment opportunities during the project development phase and ensuring project sustainability after commissioning and handover. “The branch is committed to IEK Vision of Engineering a sustainable world, to support this commitment, we setting up a physical office, in Nakuru which will serve engineers, centralise and bring services from engineers closer to residents of Nakuru County,” Mutai said. The branch chairman who was accompanied by Nakuru deputy governor, David Kones said the county was endowed with numerous natural resources and engineers within the area were contributing to the conversation. He said engineers were taking the lead in innovative and sustainable utilization of the resources with geothermal exploration in Menengai and Ol-Karia and utilisation by KenGen and Geothermal Development Company being a classic example where local engineers demonstrated capability and innovation. Mutai said at Menengai, there were other innovative uses of geothermal energy aside from conventional power generation like heated aquaculture, milk pasteurizer and a grain dryer all powered. “On accessible drinking water and solar solutions, affordable housing, health, food security, value addition and manufacturing, engineering innovation provides real solutions and engineering must be at the centre of this conversations,” he said. He said adequate resources must be allocated for the operation and maintenance of long-life infrastructure projects for citizens to reap the full benefits of the investment. Mutai called upon engineers to rise and face the challenges, be more innovative and develop sustainable solutions for a resilient world. He urged his colleagues to own up to the mistakes which sometimes occur and many times lead to the loss of lives and property. "Do not focus on excuses but instead maintain objectivity and come up with countermeasures to prevent the recurrence of such costly errors because this is the only way for you to shoulder the heavy responsibility bestowed upon you," he said. Mutai said engineering was among professions whose mistakes cannot be hidden.