More than 300 workers at Zhonghao Overseas Construction Engineering Company in Kisumu have down tools over alleged poor payments and working conditions. The workers claimed they are paid Sh400 daily despite working from 6 am to 8pm. The workers who stormed the company’s office next to Lake Basin Mall on Monday said they are constructing sewer lines in Manyatta and Lolwe estates in Kisumu city. Led by representative Livingstone Ochieng, the workers have demanded better payments saying they are being overworked. They have also cited poor working conditions as they lack some of the safety gear, especially when working in the excavation site “We want payments increased because what we are getting now is too little based on the current economic situation. The highest paid earns Sh 500. Life is very unbearable for us,” he said. The workers also cited a lack of contracts which the construction company has allegedly refused to give them. The sewer lines project is a World Bank-funded project. Ochieng pointed out that they have numerous times raised their grievances with the company but all in vain. “We only get harassment, intimidation, insults and threats of being sacked,” he said. They want Kisumu governor Anyang Nyong’o and the national government to intervene in the matter to have their concerns addressed. “We want to earn a decent living,” Ochieng said. Besides low payments, the agitated workers said their lives were at risk since they report to work at 6 am and leave at 8 pm. “We have no transport allowances forcing us to trek home at night. This exposes us, especially the young women,” Ochieng said. They also demanded an immediate end to the victimization of workers who are championing their rights. Currently, the workers get their payments through Mpesa mostly at night. “We want to sign the contract with the employer so that we understand the terms and conditions. We cannot even pay NHIF, NSSF and tax because of the lack of contracts,” Ochieng said. He claimed that the employer always creates a platform to kick employees out of the company whenever they raise their grievances. “This must stop. Nobody should be victimized for pushing for their rights and well-being at their workplace,” Ochieng said. Human resource manager Mark Ougi said he could not comment on the issues. He said that he will only speak when given a directive by the company director identified as Zoo. “I have no time, I am rushing to the labour office where I have been summoned,” Oyugi told the media at the construction site.