Residents of Lagdera have been urged to remain calm following last weeks ruling by the high court which nullified Abdikadir Hussein’s win. On Friday Abdikadir of ODM  received a 14-day stay order pending appeal. Speaking in Garissa town on Monday when he met his supporters, Abdiqani Zeitun who successfully challenged the win called on his supporters to embrace unity and not to accept being divided along clan lines. “I express my sincere gratitude to the Almighty Allah, My lawyer, petitioners, witness, religious leaders and supporters and above all the court for the fair verdict.” He added: “I request the people of Lagdera to remain calm. I also urge the electorates o make use of this opportunity to elect the leader of their choice,” he said. Politics in Northeastern is always highly charged with different clans and sub-clans pulling all strings to win. In some instances, they have resulted in supporters of different candidates clashing. Abdiqani said that he was ready to face his opponents in the by-election expressing optimism of emerging victor when the elections are called. “The petition was not about me or my competitor. It was about electoral transparency, fighting for the actual will of the people and their choices that they willfully made on the poll day," he said. He also requested the selection panel to first track the interviews and subsequent shortlisting of IEBC candidates. Moments after getting a stay order, the MP said that it is not yet over. "Following this unexpected decision of the Court, I instructed my lawyers to file an immediate appeal in regards to this unfortunate and unsolomonic ruling. I will fight back and become a true victor once again. I ask the people of Lagdera constituency to remain calm as we reclaim back our victory." "Lagdera constituency never steps away from our shadows. Not even losing a case before the court of law can deter us from reaching the apex of our sparkling mission," he said in a statement. “The ruling was not in our favour, but we soldier on. this ruling seeks to stop the good work that we have just started but our people should remain steadfast. the most important thing is that I have a stay order and I am still the MP Lagdera. The UDA Candidate moved to court citing massive irregularities. The recount excise was carried out at Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) Warehouse in Nairobi’s Industrial Area where irregularities were found. In the August general election, Abdikadir garnered  5,939 votes beating his close competitor Zeitun managed to get 4,863.