Eleven Kisumu MCAs have been de-whipped from various committees for meeting Interior PS Raymond Omollo against the wishes of ODM party. The MCAs visited Omollo in Nairobi last week and ODM has told them to apologise over their conduct. ODM, in a communication to the assembly, called for their removal from the committees for going against the party, which has refused to recognise the Kenya Kwanza government. On Tuesday, assembly speaker Elisha Oraro said he received a communication from the Kisumu county ODM coordinating office on the de-whipping of the members. He said the committee met and resolved to have the members be suspended from committees with immediate effect. “This is because they defied numerous party positions and directions,” Oraro said. Kisumu assembly majority leader Ken Ooko said ODM will not hesitate to take action against members who defy its orders. However, South West Nyakach MCA Gard Olima, who was part of the team that visited the PS, said they remain unapologetic over their actions. “If we have to be removed from the committee because we visited a government officer, so be it. We will have more visits to government officers,” he said. Olima said their visit to the PS was borne out of an insecurity situation that has been witnessed across Kisumu county, some leading to deaths. He said security is not devolved and the people of Kisumu continue to suffer and that is why they took the step to engage the national government. “I will continue to push for the interests of the people of Kisumu. I was elected to represent my people and I will continue to do so. They can have the committee,” he said. Other accused MCAs are Vincent Obuya (Central Nyakach), Habil Nyasuna (Masogo Nyangoma), Calvin Oraro (Kolwa Central), Fredrick Odari (Chemelil Tamu), Pete Oiko (Kabonyo Kanyagwal), Tom Onditi (Ombeyi), Tom Nyaoke (North Nyakach), Millicent Omuya (North Seme), Caroline Opar (nominated) and Regina Kizito also nominated. MCA Oraro linked their suspension to 2027 Kisumu county governor politics since they are leaning towards Kisumu Senator Tom Ojienda, who is facing a similar onslaught from the party. He wondered why the party failed to write to them individually and seek their word in relation to the accusations leveled against them. “I have not gone against the party, let them talk to me directly, there can evebn right a letter if there is any issue, as per now have not received abny”, he said.