Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua now claims they had to cleanse all offices associated with former President Uhuru Kenyatta before settling in as he escalated his political war with his former boss. Gachagua said he and President William Ruto had to send bishops to State House to cast out demons before they eventually settled in. “After we won the elections and before we went to State House, we said bishops must go there first to pray so that evil spirits that were there can leave,” he told congregants at Jesus Winner Ministry in Roysambu. According to Gachagua, even the State House bar was closed. “Since they [the clergy] prayed there, everything has been ok. Its just development that is going on. Even the bar that was there we closed it down. Have you people ever heard of a bar in State House? If you have a bar in State House, is there any work that can go on?” he posed. Gachagua said President Ruto is planning a detailed working tour of the Mt Kenya region and will pitch tent at the Sagana State Lodge. However, before making the State Lodge his new office, it too had to be cleansed last week by top religious leaders, Gachagua said. According to the DP, Sagana was the epicentre of “incitement, intrigues, and alcohol”. As he navigated his succession, Uhuru retreated severally to Sagana for what analyst had described as “heart-to-heart” talks with his Mt Kenya backyard. Gachagua said among the clergy who were sent to cleanse Sagana State Lodge include Bishop Edward Mwai of Jesus Winner Ministry. “We requested bishop Mwai and others to go there because that State Lodge was full of incitement, intrigues, and alcohol. They went there, prayed, and now we are ready to take the President to Sagana State Lodge to start working from there,” he said. On September 25, Ruto publicly asked some clergy to consecrate State House. “After this [fellowship] service, please don’t leave. There is lunch for all of you,” he said shortly after the morning prayer service. “There will be part two of this service, which isn’t as organised as part one. [In the second session], I want you all to speak a word of blessing around this compound. And those who can speak in tongues, please speak in tongues around this compound,” Ruto said. However, the new administration's dalliance with the church has not gone down well with everybody. Last week, some Muslim leaders complained to the Opposition Chief Raila Odinga over what they termed religious discrimination yet the Constitution makes Kenya a secular state. 