February 24 marked one year since Russia invaded Ukraine. In this interview, the Star’s Eliud Kibii engages Russian Ambassador Dmitry Maksimychev on the war, its implications and the possibility of peace talks. It is now one year since the Russian invasion of Ukraine. What does Russia seek to achieve by the end of this year? The goals and objectives of Russia’s special military operation in Ukraine remain the same as announced by President Putin in February last year. That is, demilitarisation and denazification, protection of the lives and rights of millions of Russians in Ukraine, removal of the security threats to Russia from Ukraine, and establishment of an effective system of security. These goals and objectives will be achieved. By peaceful or military means. This will benefit the peoples of not only Russia but also of Ukraine and Europe as well. As of February 12, 2023, the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights had verified 7,199 civilian deaths during this war, including 438 children. Russia has also lost many soldiers and equipment, and has been sidelined internationally. How necessary was this war? The only way to avoid civilian casualties in Ukraine was to implement the Minsk Agreements approved by a UN Security Council resolution in 2015 and to agree with the proposal by the Russian Federation to start a meaningful dialogue on security in Europe way back in 2021. None of this happened. Ex-Chancellor Merkel of Germany, ex-President Hollande of France, ex-President Poroshenko of Ukraine and the incumbent Ukrainian President Zelensky all publicly confessed that they had cheated and deliberately conspired to sabotage the Minsk Agreements to give the Ukrainian military more time and more weapons to regroup, rearm and prepare for an armed attack on the Russian-populated Donbass republics in early March 2022. By February 2022, the bombardment and shelling of civilian populations in Donbass by the Ukrainian military steadily escalated to an absolutely untenable level, with dozens of civilians being killed every day. Therefore, the conflict could not be avoided. It was not our choice, it was a necessity. On civilian casualties. The Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, to be credible, should have provided a more detailed breakdown, specifying how many civilians were killed by the Ukrainian military who, as you know, routinely use human shields as combat tactics, and also shell the civilian residential areas of towns and cities they claim are theirs before retreating. It should also have indicated the number of civilians killed, including children, in Donbass by the Kiev military over the eight years since 2014. It is documented that in 2014-2021, at least 15,000 people were killed in Donbass, most of them ethnic Russian civilians. Among them, at least 149 children. HCRC, to be true to their mandate, should also report on the number of political murders, forced disappearances, cases of extrajudicial killings, torture and intimidation of political opponents in Ukraine. Is Russia willing to negotiate, and if yes, what would be its conditions? Russia has never refused to negotiate. Moreover, as early as March 2022, Russia agreed to start direct negotiations with Ukraine. As recently confirmed by former Prime Minister of Israel Naftali Bennett, a draft agreement on the cessation of hostilities and further conditions for peace, including mutual security guarantees and Ukraine’s neutral status, was almost ready when UK, EU and US intervened publicly and forced Zelensky to continue the fighting. Judge for yourself who is responsible for the death and destruction in Ukraine. We are ready for serious negotiations that would allow us to achieve the goals and objectives of the operation and also reflect the new reality in the zone of the conflict. This includes the reunification with Russia of the Donetsk People’s Republic, the Lugansk People’s Republic, the Zaporozhie Region and the Kherson Region. The war has disrupted supply chains of grain, especially towards Africa, at a time the Horn of Africa, for instance, is facing the worst drought in four decades. Ukraine has accused Russia of shelling agricultural infrastructure, burning fields and stealing grain. Russia, on the other hand, says most of the exported grain was going to Europe instead of the world’s hungriest nations. Is Russia using food as a weapon? This is western fake news. Russia is not using food as a weapon because it would be against our own interests. Russia is the largest producer and exporter of grain in the world. We earn much money from it. Only Nato is interested in restricting Russia’s exports anywhere, including Africa. They want to hurt us economically and do not care about the food security of Africa. Ukraine has never been the “breadbasket of Africa”. Their problem was that most of their exports were channelled through the Black Sea port of Odessa, which is also a major Ukrainian naval base that they had mined out of fear of the Russian Navy. They themselves locked their own merchant fleet in Odessa, thus blocking their own exports, and made up a stupid story that it was Russia who blocked them “to starve the world”. Our concern was to prevent Nato from using the Odessa port to supply weapons to Ukraine. Therefore, we agreed to the so-called Black Sea Grain Initiative, whereby the Ukrainians would demine the port and start the export of whatever grain they had left in it, while the Russian Navy would inspect all ships to exclude the traffic of weapons. We don’t burn the grain fields or the storage facilities. Neither do we steal the grain. We have enough grain ourselves. It is another Nato lie that betrays their own thinking, because they would do exactly that if they were given a chance. Everyone gauges others against themselves. The world economy is currently rushing into a full-out global crisis that is being created by irresponsible and inept economic and financial policies of the western oligarchies. Hence the looming global debt crisis, soaring commodities prices, inflation and so on. Being unable to comprehend the systemic nature of the crisis, the only thing the western “elites” could think of was the destruction and pillage of Russia that would give them access to its riches for free. That, in their sick minds, would allow them to prosper another 30 to 40 years without changing their already bankrupt economic model. For that, they provoked the proxy hybrid war with Russia in Ukraine, accompanied by thousands of illegal unilateral “sanctions” meant to precipitate our economic collapse. But they underestimated the resilience and vitality of the Russian economy. Their “sanctions” do not work because the world has changed since the colonial period. Development and trade are now driven by other nations, who are more productive, innovative and competitive than the obsolescent Western economies plagued with corruption, inefficiencies, distortions and imbalances. The only thing they have achieved so far is disruptions of food supplies to the developing countries. It is the West that uses food as a weapon against Russia. Russia has acted as an anti-imperialist force that supports the African struggle against neo-colonialism. Critics, however, accuse Moscow of engaging in predatory practices on the continent. How do you respond to them? Russia has always been and remains anti-imperialist! I am sure that Africans understand that it is not a conflict between Russia and Ukraine. It is a war that the collective West is waging for American domination and the restoration of the old colonial system. The unipolar world is dying in agony, disgrace and convulsions. Historically, they are doomed. A new multipolar world based on respect of equality, sovereignty and international law is being born. Those who still hope to please their former colonial masters will find themselves among the losers on the wrong side of history. It is the old colonialists, racists and predators who spread the lies about our “predatory practices”. Ours is a fair and mutually beneficial model of cooperation, and more and more African countries prefer that to neocolonialism. Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov has made numerous visits to Africa in what is widely seen as a pushback against Western influence. Talk about the visits and maybe why Kenya has not been among the states he has visited. Note that it is the West which talks of “pushing back and influences”. This betrays their sense of insecurity and guilty conscience. We do not see Africa as a battleground of influences but rather as a continent of cooperation and development. The choice of the destinations was determined by the level of relations and available concrete proposals for cooperation. This year in December marks 60 years of diplomatic relations with Kenya. How would you describe the status of the bilateral ties? We have positive relations. I wish we achieved a better level of trade. Both our countries and economic operators should make additional efforts to make themselves mutually attractive. With good will, ingenuity and determination, together, we can move mountains. The Second Russia-Africa Summit after Sochi will be coming up this year. What should we expect from this meeting? The Second Russia-Africa Summit will take our strategic cooperation to a new level. It is a unique platform for a free and frank multilateral dialogue to collectively produce innovative ideas for addressing the most pressing global challenges. It will be an opportunity to reassert the principles of the new multipolar world firmly based on equality, sovereignty and international law, free from unilateral diktat.