An MP has developed a private member's bill seeking to stop the government from funding private universities using taxpayers money. Khwisero MP Christopher Aseka’s bill also seeks to amend the Universities Act No. 42 of 2012 to stop Kenya Universities and Colleges Central Placement Service (KUCCPS) from placing students in private universities. “The object of the bill is to safeguard public funds from misuse by private entities which have not been brought under the regulatory framework of the Public Finance Management Act 2015 and the regulations thereunder,” Aseka says in the memorandum of objection. Clause 2 and 3 of the bill proposes to amend section 53(4) (b), 54 (4) (b) and (c) of the principal Act to abolish issuance of conditional grants to private universities. The amendment bill seeks to delete section 53(4)(b) by deleting the paragraph; that reads “any expenditure approved by the Trustees for conditional grants and loans to private universities; and substituting with “in consultation with the Cabinet Secretary, develop a fair criterion for allocation of funds to public universities.” The bill also seeks to amend Section 54(4)(c) which states “in consultation with the Cabinet Secretary, develop a transparent and fair criteria for allocation of funds to public universities and issue conditional grants to private universities” and replace it with “in consultation with the cabinet secretary, develop a transparent and fair criterion for allocating funds to public universities”. The bill also seeks to delete section 54(4) (c) which reads, “apportion funds to public universities and issuance of conditional grants to private universities in accordance with criteria established” and  replace it with words, “apportion funds to public universities”. Clause 4 proposes to amend 56(1)(a) of the principal Act to bar the KUCCPS from placement of students to private universities by deleting paragraph (a) which reads, “co-ordinate the placement of the government sponsored students to universities and colleges; co-ordinate the placement of the government sponsored students to universities and colleges” by inserting the word “public” immediately after the word university. Paragraph 16 of Part 1 of the Fourth Schedule to the constitution provides that universities, tertiary educational institutions and other institutions of research and high learning is a function of national governments. “In view of this, the bill does not concern county governments in terms of Article 110(1)(a) of the Constitution as it does not affect the functions and powers of county governments recognised in the Fourth Schedule to the Constitution, and is therefore not a bill concerning county governments,” Statement on the delegation of legislative powers and limitation of fundamental rights and freedoms, the bill does not contain any provisions limiting any fundamental rights or freedom. 