Michael Karanga has focused on defending his Muthaiga Open in the next event following his back-to-back victories at the ongoing Kenya Amateur Golf Championships (KAGC) series during the Windsor Classic tournament at the par 72 Windsor golf club. Karanga managed to defend his Windsor Classic title on Sunday and immediately promised to start training for the next event at Muthaiga. “My focus now is to conquer Muthaiga Open. I came here with a purpose and I am happy to have achieved it,” said Karanga. After winning Sigona Bowl in January, the Kiambu golfer fired two over par 218 to emerge top as the chase for the 2024 Magical Kenya Open gets underway for amateurs. In round three on Sunday afternoon, Karanga rolled in four under par 68 as the lowest gross player after sinking five birdies, two in the first nine and three in the second nine in a hotly contested round three encounter. In an interview, he said he kept pushing to catch up with the rest after missing the top position in Round Two on Saturday. “I remained keen on putting to close the gap with Day Two leaders and I managed to win with four under,” said Karanga. On an opening day on Friday, he took a slim lead of a two-shot lead after sinking one under par 71. He, however, failed to maintain the lead when he fell to 4th in the second round but recovered well in the last round to win. In the first nine, he started off with back-to-back pars, followed by a birdie in three, parred in 4ht, 5th, 6th, 7th and 8th but sealed off well with a birdie in 9th for -2. On resumption, he had a par in the 10th, dropped a shot in the 11th recovered with a birdie in the 12th, and parring in the 13th, 14th, 17th and 18th but recorded birdies in the 15th and 16th to boost his winning ways. He defeated Ugandan Godfrey Nsubuga with two shots at 220 with Bhavnish Chandaria from Muthaiga coming third on +6 at 222. The reigning Kenya One John Lejirma from Kenya Railways was 4th on +8 and round two leader Josphat Rono came 5th overall with +9 225.