Jubilee secretary general Jeremiah Kioni has asked Interior CS Kithure Kindiki to focus on solving the death of interior designer Jeff Mwathi. Jeff died after falling from the 12th floor of Redwood Apartments around Safari Park Estate on February 22. Speaking on Monday during an Azimio public baraza in Kilifi, Kioni said Kindiki ought to shift the energy he is using on ODM leader Raila Odinga to attain justice for Jeff. "Just a few days ago, a young man named Jeff died in a suspected foul play. Instead of focusing on that, Kindiki thinks he can 'wrestle' with Baba," he said. "He should focus on getting justice for Jeff." Kioni said the trend that has seen young people get killed must come to an end. On Friday, CS Kindiki ordered the DCI boss Mohamed Amin to conduct intensive investigations into Jeff's demise and carry out the necessary action. "On the matter of the late Jeff Mwathi, have spoken to the DCI Amin and instructed him to send a homicide team from the DCI headquarters to thoroughly investigate the incident and take the necessary action," Kindiki said. The CS appreciated the efforts of the DCI in acting on the matter. "The homicide team from the DCI headquarters is dispassionate, and this will help resolve the claims of collusion," he said. Mwathi died after falling from the 12th floor of a building the DJ lives in along Thika Road. The circumstances under which Mwathi died are still unclear. It is said he was with a group of friends partying. Reports show the victim had spent the day with the popular DJ. It is said Mwathi met with the popular DJ as he was meant to design the DJs shop. Mwathi sent his mother a few videos from his day with DJ Faxto. The last video sent was while he was in the house of the DJ. CCTV footage revealed that Fatxo, Mwathi, and three ladies went to his apartment after spending time together at three different clubs. According to Mwathi's uncle, Fatxo and the three ladies left the house at around 4 am leaving Jeff in the house with two other men.