Winners of the 2022 Eldoret City Marathon will finally receive their winning prizes this Friday after a long wait, according to the race director, Moses Tanui. Tanui confirmed that all the top 20 athletes will receive their money this Friday after almost a year of waiting. “Today I am happy to announce that we are paying our athletes their prize money on Friday at the Uasin Gishu county headquarters. As an athlete, it wasn't my wish to delay payments. This was due to a technical hitch and we sincerely apologize," said the former world 10,000m champion. Tanui urged all the race sponsors to grace Friday's occasion as they plan the future of the race. He said his wish is to see the event outlive him.  "This is an event for all Kenyans and we need to nurture it. It doesn't belong to Moses, I am only facilitating the marathon," he said. He said the event is fast becoming a household name and they have consistently hosted it including during the Covid-19 period. " My wish is to have this event outlive all of us," he noted. He said races like Boston Marathons started over 130 years ago and they are still there despite the founders having died many years ago. He said Eldoret Marathon caters for athletes across the board. "Despite Eldore being the home of elite runners, this event was not started for the top athletes alone but we considered those who have been training for many years without competition across the borders," he said. He said he is happy that most athletes nurtured through the Eldoret Marathon have gone on to win World Marathon Majors. “To be a champion, you need exposure and the Eldoret race was created for that sole purpose, especially for those who are unable to travel," he explained.  He said for the country to succeed, we need to draw a line between sports and politics. "I know we have been branded bad people but my vision for the youth is clear,” he added. The double Boston marathon champion revealed that they have partnered with the Ethiopian 10km Great Run to boost sports tourism in the region.