Bunyore Starlets have what it takes to finish in the top four of the Kenya Women's Premier League standings, according to club chairman Moses Mabwa. Despite losing their last two fixtures 1-0 and 2-0 against Trans Nzoia and Nakuru City Queens respectively, Mabwa urged the team to improve on their performance in the second leg. Bunyore occupy the sixth position on the log with 16 points from 11 matches. They travel to Kisumu to play Kisumu All-Starlets on Saturday, looking to arrest their poor run. "You should not be defined by your past. We've lost twice but that is not the end of the world. We have to fight for maximum points in all the matches without fear or intimidation from any opponent," Mabwa said. Mabwa was addressing the players at Mumboha grounds after receiving new uniforms from Harold Mbati Foundation on Thursday. Mbati, who also donated two balls, challenged the team to prove their worth on the field. “All is not lost. You still have time to recollect yourselves and focus on the ultimate prize,” he urged the team. “The little that I will be getting will partly be channeled towards helping the team but you must impress us as the community." Mabwa reminded the girls that they have the capacity to finish among the top four in the Kenya Women's Premier League if they remained focused. He told the girls not to be defined by the past as they prepare for the second round of the league. “Yes we have lost the two critical matches against  Trans Nzoia (1-0) and  Nakuru City Queens (2-0) but that shouldn't discourage you,” Mabwa said. “It's now time to focus on the return leg and gather points without fear or favor. Any opponent who comes on our wrong side must surrender the points,” he added. The club chairman was addressing the players at Mumboha ground after receiving new uniforms from a well-wisher Harold Mabati Foundation. Mbati while donating the uniforms urged girls to remain focused on the league and especially the return leg. Bunyore Starlets are currently in position six with 16 points—same as  Wadadia FC and Trans Nzoia Falcons FC but separated by goal difference. Starlets are set to battle it out with Kisumu All Starlets at Kisumu Stadium while Gaspo will be hosting Nakuru Queens at GEM Cambridge this weekend. Kayole Starlets also host Wadadia at Camp Toyoyo in Nairobi. Ulinzi welcome Zetech Sparks at Ulinzi Complex while Thika Queens host Trans Nzoia Falcons at Thika grounds. Kangemi  Ladies play Vihiga queens at GEMS Cambridge Stadium on Saturday. “We are set and ready for the match; the past won’t halt us from retaining the league trophy,” Vihiga Queens' head coach Boniface Nyamunyamu said.