Kitui Water and Sanitation Company board has rejected a request to renew the contract of managing director Geoffrey Kiita Kitonga. The contract ended on February 28. The board chaired by Harrison Nyumu rejected Kitonga's request for a contract extension during a meeting last Thursday. The meeting was held at the company premises but members of the press were locked out. “We have instructions not to allow members of the media into our compound today because the management has a very crucial meeting that requires minimum disruption,” a guard said. However, according to the minutes of the meeting, the press was kept away to spare Kitonga embarrassment. On Tuesday, Kitui Water executive Peter Nkunda, under whose department Kitwasco falls, confirmed that the board had declined to renew Kitonga’s contract. “The board did not extend Mr Kitonga’s contact due to reasons that I cannot disclose to you. All I can tell you is that he was given 10 working days to hand over to the new acting MD June Munyao, and leave office,” said Nkunda. He said Munyao was seconded by Governor Julius Malombe. Munyao is the county Finance chief officer. Nkunda said the recruitment of a substantive MD will be competitive. He said the outgoing MD was free to apply once the job is advertised. Kitonga has steered the company through turbulent times. During a recent tour of water installations in Kitui by the Water PS Paul Rono, Kitonga said the firm was making a monthly loss of Sh20 million through non-revenue water. There is also an active investigation by DCI involving the purchase of 45 jerrycans of chlorine at Sh743,850 by the firm from Yatta Water Services Company in Machakos. The chemical had been donated to Yatta Water Services Company by the national government and the containers were marked 'not for sale'. In February last year, DCI officers from Matuu subcounty raided Kitwasco stores at the Masinga dam water treatment works and recovered 40 jerrycans of chlorine. In October 2021, Kitui MCAS threatened to stop authorising county government subsidy funding to Kitwasco unless it justified its existence. The MCAs said the water company had become a huge liability to the county. They said despite receiving subsidies, the company was making losses and did not provide water to residents. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya