Kakamega Members of the County Assembly have been asked to take up the mantle to champion and publicize the upcoming Kakamega Agricultural Society of Kenya-ASK Show of 2023 to increase prospects. Under the theme ‘Promoting smart climate Agriculture and Trade initiatives for Sustainable Economic Growth,’ the Show is slated for Thursday 14th to Saturday 17th of June this year. Speaking during a breakfast meeting between the ASK officials and the county assembly Committee on Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries, Marketing and Cooperatives on Thursday, Francis Osore of the ASK Kakamega Branch reminded the Legislators that their role in publicizing the show was key. He noted that the County Assembly was the engine behind any agricultural and agri-business initiatives both at the Assembly and the County levels. “When you go to the agricultural field days, market the show or even during radio talk shows so that we can all engage the public effectively. We are ready to work with this committee in promoting agriculture, especially the upcoming ASK show," said Osore. He revealed that during the four-day Show, two will be specifically set aside for farmers' clinics and called upon the county assembly to spearhead the clinics with support from relevant stakeholders. “Farm clinics are innovative ways of bridging the information gap with regards to agricultural production, by enabling farmers to lose less and produce more through engaging experts who provide a diagnosis to farmers' problems and give recommendations for better management," said Osore. This year’s show is expected to attract over 100 exhibitors and tens of thousands of show-goers with farmers’ entry fees having been discounted from Sh200 to Sh 150 per entry. “The exhibition rates are Sh35,000, Sh65,000 and Sh105,000 for the small, medium and large stands respectively. Catalogues will be charged Sh 500. The rates are very friendly to encourage more participation, “he said. The official however decried the sorry state of the show ground’s infrastructure which includes a poor road network and called for stakeholders and other well-wishers to join hands in revamping the same. Kakamega has been unable to hold the annual show for the last three years owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. “I think that’s why the infrastructure is in bad shape because it hasn’t been touched for the last three years but we hope people come on board and do something because time is almost up. The county committee on Agriculture chairperson Donald Okumu revealed that many people have no idea what the mandate of the ASK is and pledged to ensure the MCAs play their part in educating the masses. “The ASK has been here for a while but very few people have an idea of what it is and its functions. There is definitely a need to reach out to the public and interpret this for them," he said.