Renowned Nairobi lawyer Cliff Ombeta has cautioned Mugithi singer DJ Fatxo to stay away from media interviews. In a tweet, Ombeta argued that Fatxo risks contradicting himself if he keeps appearing in the media for interviews over the death of Jeff Mwathi – where he is a person of interest. The city lawyer said that anything Fatxo says right now is dangerous and might be used against him in a court of law. He signed off by telling Fatxo to allow his lawyers to speak at all times. “Dj Faxto. Stop blundering. You are supposed to be quiet at this moment. Nil by mouth. Anything you say now is dangerous to you or your defence. Don't give cops ground to contradict or investigate. Let you lawyer speak. You can always deny what he says. "MISQUOTED" always helps,” Lawyer Cliff Ombeta said. Lawrence Njuguna Wagura aka DJ Fatxo is being represented by Lawyer Ndegwa Njiru and they were together at the Saturday presser. Ombeta’s advice comes at a time DJ Fatxo is facing backlash over his first media interview. On Saturday, Fatxo briefly gave details of his friendship with the late Jeff Mwathi who reportedly died at his house. Fatxo said that he had known Jeff for 2 years and he used to sell shoes to him. He also mentioned that he is the one who reported Jeff as a missing person to the police, something that has raised eyebrows in his statements. “Later coming back after a few hours, finding that Jeff is not in the house and the others are there. "I am the one who actually went to the police station to report that Jeff is missing. "There is also this issue that is going on that I didn’t mourn the demise of Jeff. I reached out. I am the one who even told the family that Jeff is no more. "I actually contacted them and told them I could have supported them they bury their son and we come together. "It was something that pains me also. So I reached an extent where I was not getting a response. I told my mother can you please call one of the family members and request them to agree and work with us. "This is something new to me. There is no way I can lose a friend and fail to mourn them. "Maybe Jeff’s mother was not told, maybe she was not told I want us to meet but what I want to say is that we reached out,". DJ Fatxo went on to state that he is willing to cooperate with detectives who are investigating the matter. “I’m so willing to cooperate with detectives, DCI, and everyone involved. I’m ready to corporate until we all know what happened to Jeff,’ In a message to Kenyans, Fatxo said; "And for Kenyans and my fans keep on praying for me, this thing is so hard but we will emerge victorious. The singer also disclosed that he had known Jeff for close to two years. “I have known Jeff for two years. He used to sell shoes to me and I have bought so many pairs of shoes from him since 2021. "When I used to go to his shop he could tell me, the way you see this interior it's me who made this. So I always knew that if I want to set up something of the sort, Jeff could have done it for me,”. It is alleged that Mwathi fell from the 10th floor of Redwood Apartments along Thika Road where the DJ lives. The circumstances under which he died are still unclear and DCI is investigating the matter. Detectives from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, homicide department visited DJ Fatxo's apartment on Friday.