With Nairobi’s population growth over the years, the demand for housing also increases. As a result, City hall has identified nine estates that have been earmarked for the urban renewal program The estate include Bahati, Maringo, Jericho, Lumumba, Ziwani, Bondeni, Kariobangi, Embakasi and Woodley. Nairobi Governor Johnson Sakaja has revealed that the move will reduce the shortage of affordable rental houses in the city. “Nairobi’s population has grown over the years thus increasing the demand for housing. We have a shortage. More so a good per cent of the residents of this city are unemployed or low-income earners and thus cannot access decent affordable housing,” he said. The Governor was speaking on Tuesday after opening the pre-bidders conference for the county’s Urban Renewal Affordable housing program. At the moment, Nairobi has only 16,453 social housing across over 32 estates. Sakaja, therefore, noted that with the current state of poor housing and high levels of urbanization, Nairobi is in dire need of increasing the housing stock, especially for low and middle-income households. Going further, Sakaja explained that the urban renewal program is anchored on the Nairobi Integrated Urban Development Master Plan (NIUPLAN), which identified the redevelopment of Eastland. The plans also received a boost after the county boss said that Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA)  supported the project. Bahati estate will set up 9,000 units, Jericho 6,000, Lumumba 4,000, Maringo 4,000, Woodley 3,400,  Ziwani 2,500, Embakasi 2,500, Kariobangi North 2,000 and Bondeni will get 700 units. The Governor revealed that the project will entail 70 percent affordable housing units, which will be sold at a cost of between Sh1.5 million and Sh3.5 million. The remaining 30 percent will be developed to target middle and higher-income households. In addition, the Governor said City hall will work closely with the national government to ensure the project becomes successful, unlike other initial affordable housing plans. Phase One of Nairobi’s AHP aimed to develop eight estates, however, up to date only two are ongoing. They included Pangani, Jevanjee, Ngong Road, Uhuru and Suna Road estates as well as Inspectorate staff quarters. Currently, Pangani which cost Sh25 billion is finalizing the setup of eight blocks that will have 1,562 units standing on 5.2 acres of land. Jevanjee formally known as Bachelor quarters has 1,900 units being set up from land that was previously occupied by 81 houses. Sakaja cited that lack of land documentation is among the reasons why most of the phase one projects never kicked off. “The delay of the other projects in Suna Road, Ngong Road Phase 1 and 2, Uhuru, Old Ngara and New Ngara has been due to various reasons. This is being addressed and we will ensure that these documents are availed in time to support timely project implementation in this new phase," he said. The county boss pledged that his administration will work towards solving the issues.