A rifle believed to have been used in a series of robbery with violence incidents has been recovered in Marsabit town. Police said the AK47 rifle with 30 bullets was recovered and a suspect who had it was arrested in Badassa village within Jaldesa location. This is after detectives raided the house of one suspect who led them to a bush inside Marsabit National Park where the firearm was recovered. Thirty three rounds of ammunition, a police jungle shirt, a jungle belt and a cleaning kit were also recovered. The suspect is currently being held at Marsabit police station pending arraignment. Elsewhere on Sunday, the multi-agency team in Baringo recovered two AK-47 rifles surrendered by elders from Nawe Village in Barkateu sub-location. This is part of Operation Maliza Uhalifu North Rift in the area, police spokesperson Dr Resila Onyango said. In Samburu, another team in the exercise recovered two firearms and ammunition. The two AK-47 rifles were handed over by the Samburu North assistant county commissioner after being surrendered by residents of Kawoiyot and Morulem Villages both in Terter sub-location. More than 150 firearms have been recovered in the ongoing operation in the area aimed at addressing banditry. In Laikipia, the team recovered 82 sheep and one goat that had been stolen at Ndindika Village in Kirima on March 10, 2023. The animals were recovered in Lolumoru area in Baringo. The security team drove the livestock to Ng'arua Police Station, and the same was handed over to the owner after identification. During the raid, one herder was killed prompting protests from the locals. Interior Cabinet Secretary Kithure Kindiki Sunday announced in the last seven months over 135 Kenyans, including 20 officers, have been killed by bandits. He told those living in some targeted areas in the north rift to leave by March 13 at 8.30 am amid questions about where the villagers will move to. “Where do those who are calling the places home go?” asked a villager. This is after it emerged some of those targeted are now disguised as ordinary villagers. The affected areas are Korkoron Hills, Tandare Valley and Silale Gorges in Baringo County, Mukogodo Forest, Kamwenje, Warero and Ndonyoriwo, Lekuruki Hills, Losos and Kiape Caves and Sieku Valley in Laikipia County and Ltungai Conservancy, Longewan, Nasuur, Lochokia and Lekadaar Escarpments, Lolmolok Caves, Pura Valley, Malaso Escarpment and Suguta Valley in Samburu County. The other areas are Kapelbok, Nakwamoru, Lebokat, Ombollion, Nadome and Kamur caves in Turkana County, the Turkwell Escarpment at the interface of West Pokot and Turkana Counties. “The above-specified spaces are hereby declared scenes of crime and any person found therein from Monday 13th March 2023 0830 hours will be treated as a suspect of armed banditry, or as a suspect of aiding and abetting banditry, or an accessory after the fact,” Kindiki said.