Adrian Momanyi, 14, got 369 marks in last year’s KCPE exam at Rabuor Primary School where he was among the top pupils. Last week, he tearfully walked back to his old school as pupils who he left in lower classes looked at him through the widows and others talked in low tones while he passed a few classrooms heading to his former classroom. Momanyi, who has not lost hope of joining Form 1, is optimistic that someone out there will be touched by his story and support his education course. He narrated to the media how the journey to try and get him to join Form 1 has been occasioned by family financial constraints. Momanyi said his mother has tried her best but her efforts have been fruitless and her business cannot even sustain them as a family in getting their basic needs let alone handle his secondary education. “Life has not been easy and despite me passing my KCPE exams, I have been at home while other students are in school. I’m requesting anybody out there who can come to my aid to assist me to join Form 1 and continue with the classes that are currently ongoing,” he said. Momanyi said when he asked to repeat Std 8 his head teacher told him he would try to help him and that’s how the media got wind of his story. His mother Violet Afande said she runs a chips business but it is not doing that well with the high cost of living and high prices of commodities such as cooking oil. She has three children she has to take care of. Afadhe said she has knocked on various doors, including applying for bursaries, but all have been fruitless. She added that having separated from her husband years ago, she has been solely taking care of the children and any assistance to her boy will greatly help. “We came to his former school because he was just back at home stressed as other students are in school yet he passed his exam. There is nothing I could do because seeing him draining every day before my eyes is painful for me to bear .” She called on well-wishers to come to the aid of her son, who she says is a hard worker. Rabuor Primary School head teacher Dick Awuonda told the media that he was surprised to see the former student back to school in uniform, accompanied by the mother. Awuonda said Adrian was one of their best students in last year’s KCPE and he knew the boy had already joined Form 1. “The boy is very bright and I know he has a bright future. So I am appealing to anybody touched out there to come to his aid, to help him out, anything they can assist him with to help him join Kisumu Boys Secondary School,” he said. For assistance you can contact this reporter through 0719830892. (Edited  by V. Graham)