Hit Squad’s head coach, Benjamin Musa, has stated that he is working tirelessly to perfect the team’s scoring prowess ahead of the World Boxing Championships in New Delhi, India. Musa confessed in an exclusive interview on Sunday that poor scoring techniques had disadvantaged Kenyan boxers in previous championships and that they were toiling in camp to polish their act. “We’re looking at two aspects of how to do this. It is not enough to just enter the scoring range to get points. It is also necessary to quit the situation swiftly so that the opponent does not have a chance to negate the points obtained instantly,” Musa stated. Musa stated that speed was still an issue and that the Kenyan boxers needed instruction on how to quickly dance their way out of the danger zone after landing punches on the opponents. “If we figure out how to get in and out of the range quickly enough, we’ll be fine in our bouts since other aspects are being taken care of,” he continued. The seasoned gaffer indicated that he will announce the final roster of 12 boxers for the February 10 trip to Delhi. “Just one boxer will be dropped from the squad. We desire representation in all categories. We have talented fighters who can compete in all divisions, so we are crossing our fingers for a strong showing," Musa stated. A stellar ensemble of 13 boxers has been limbering up for the world show after pitching camp at the Mathare Depot a fortnight ago. The tactician expressed satisfaction with the development the Kenyan pugilists have made in training thus far, saying that they will be aspiring for nothing short of a medal haul when they set foot in India. “Training is going well overall, and morale in the camp is high. During training, you can feel the energy in the room and every boxer’s determination to make the final squad “Musa stated. Meanwhile, Musa believes the country is rich with talent, based on the quality of play he witnessed during the Kenya National Intermediate Boxing Championships, which concluded in Kajiado county on Sunday. “The youth demonstrated class in the event, and we have identified several boxers who have the potential to fly the country’s flag on the global stage shortly,” Musa said. “Every other year, a slew of aspiring boxers emerges from the shadows. If the current tendency continues, people will have to fight tooth and nail to make the national team.” The event’s champions secured a spot in the Kenya National Open, which will be held in April.