Senators on Tuesday heard how at least 8,000 youths from Uasin Gishu were allegedly conned between Sh 40,400 and 150,000 each by a consultancy firm that claimed it would help them secure jobs abroad. Appearing before Senate’s Labour and Social Welfare Committee, the youths narrated how First Choice Recruitment and Consultancy Agency gave them false hopes of a bright future. “I was offered Sh400,000 to stop pursuing this matter and when I declined, I got threats against my life,” activist Kimutai Kirui said. Kirui told the committee led by West Pokot Senator Julius Murgor that he was forced to flee Eldoret because of the threats. The representatives of the victims told the committee that they learnt of the agency after Cooperatives CS Simon Chelugui, Uasin Gishu Senator Jackson Mandago and Prominent Businessman David Lagat attended its launch on May 20, 2021. The committee was informed that the agency had promised the youths to assist them to get studies and job opportunities in Qatar, Poland, Finland and Britain. Lawrence Nzuki, one of the victims who completed his studies at Kisii University in 2019 told the committee that he looked forward to a job opportunity in Finland. He was allegedly duped to give out a total of Sh 437,000 towards this programme. “When I went to the agency I applied to study in Finland where I got an admission letter from Tampere university and paid a downpayment,” he said. “I was to pay the balance of the required amount in instalments when I settled in Finland, I later got a call from the university saying I had not paid fees,” said Nzuki. When he went to the agency to inquire, Director Judy Jepchirchir allegedly told him they had a disagreement with the university. She is said to have told Nzuki to apply to study at a university in Poland and would later be called and told that he had secured a work permit for Poland which he signed and was booked for an embassy appointment. Nzuki told the committee that he honoured the embassy appointment but unfortunately was denied a visa. Upon carrying out an investigation he found out that it was due to a fake insurance policy issued by the agency. He decided to visit Pioneer Insurance Company which had issued the insurance policy after which samples of genuine insurance were shown to him. He decided to seek a refund from the agency. When he sensed that he had been conned and that on many occasions he reported the DCI in Eldoret to no avail. On November 1, 2022, he was served a letter through the agency advocate accusing him of threats and defamation of character. “I was called by one of the agency employees known as Matthew to come and my refund cheque. I was issued with a post-dated cheque that was not equivalent to the amount I paid to the company,” said Nzuki. Sammy Boiro, a bodaboda operator told the committee that he sold his motorbike so that he could raise the Sh40,400. The funds were to enable him to travel to Qatar for a job. He convinced his parents to sell a section of their family land at Sh 100,000 so that his sister Peris Jebet could also secure a chance to work there. Boiro said he saw an opportunity for quick wealth and convinced at least 10 of his friends to pay money to secure the job opportunities. “The most painful part is that I had spent Sh 200,000 to get my motorbike which I paid for in instalments and sold it at Sh 65,000 since I saw a chance of improving my life,” he said. “My parents sold land so that my sister could join me and I also convinced my friends to also join what I thought was a lucrative deal which turned into a hoax,” said Boiro. Murgor said that the panel will summon Interior CSKithure Kindiki, his counterpart Florence Bore and Police IG Japhet Koome to shed light on the matter. “They will tell us what steps the government has taken to address the plight of over 8,000 youths who might have lost billions of shillings in total in this scam,” said Murgor. Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei said that it was unfortunate that innocent youths were being intimidated for fighting for their rights. Cherargei said that the committee will visit Uasin Gishu County so that they could meet with the victims to understand the magnitude of the problem. First Choice Recruitment Agency CEO Judy Chepchirchir has denied any wrongdoing. She told the Star that her firm was doing legitimate business and had not conned anyone. On Sunday she flagged off more than 100 youths who will fly out this week for jobs abroad. Sudi said they would also meet the owners of the firm and sort out challenges concerning their programmes.