The 2016 Africa Junior Women Cross Country champion, Miriam Cherop, has pledged to blaze to the podium at the World Athletics Championships set for August 19-27 in Budapest, Hungary. Cherop told the Star in an exclusive interview on Wednesday that she is optimistic she will do well in her first major women's 1500m senior competition. "I'm already preparing for the championship. I traditionally participate in the 1500m race and I'm proud to have earned a promotion to the senior category," Cherop said. "My training has been going on well and I am happy with the outcome as I seek to achieve my target. I am hopeful to live my dream and bring home a gold medal in Budapest,” said Cherop. Cherop, 23, stated that she has been burning the midnight oil in a frantic attempt to better her time as she aims for a vintage performance in Budapest. "My main aim is to improve my personal best. I'm not very satisfied with the time I have posted thus far, so I need to work on something much better," she added. Cherop, who will be relying on her vast experience in the junior races to steer her to success, bagged silver in the 2018 World Under-20 1,500m race held in Tampere, Finland. She says she is aware it will require a lot of effort to step into the shoes of the world 1500m queen, Faith Kipyegon. The 28-year-old middle distance sensation boasts of two Olympic titles and three World Championships medals. "She is my inspiration, and I aspire to be as amazing as her eventually. She has accomplished much for the country, and the rest of us look up to her. My ambition is to compete in the same final as her in future races, "Cherop stated. The Kericho-based athlete who represented Kenya in the World Cross Country championships in Bathurst, Australia last month said she was happy with their performance in the mixed relay finals where they stormed to the gold medal. "I feel good and proud of our performance in Australia. Winning gold isn't a mean feat and the win has boosted my confidence heading into the World championships," Chebet said. The Kenyan quartet of Emmanuel Wanyonyi, Miriam Cherop, Daniel Munguti, and Brend Chebet destroyed the field to win the World Cross Country Mixed Relay gold in Bathurst, Australia. Kenya won the race in 23:14 with rivals and neighbors Ethiopia clocking 23:21 for second place. Hosts Australia were third in 23:26 with South Africa, who had Caster Semenya on the anchor lane, finishing fourth.