Anthony Samba Buluma, chief executive officer of the Kenya Young Parliamentarians Association (KYPA), has stated that the organisation's major purpose is to provide a platform for the youth to be heard. Buluma said on Wednesday morning that they had effectively built a structure through which Kenyan youths could channel their concerns at KYPA-organised sessions in the presence of young legislators. "I have a lot of faith in the current Parliament because it comprises the most number of young people in history," he said. He downplayed voter concerns that younger politicians will be unable to live up to expectations after failing to perform in the past. "Contrary to popular belief, young legislators performed admirably in the previous legislature. The top five CDF performers were all young. So the standards have already been set," Buluma said. KYPA, according to Buluma, has set out to remove the harmful culture of undue party loyalty that has shackled legislators' hands, prohibiting them from serving the voters without constraints. "What would afflict us is that all of these leaders belong somewhere. The political culture in Kenya, and even within parliament, is that you must vow devotion to the platform that brought you to parliament," he said. "That's where KYPA comes in. We attempt to show our young leaders the bigger picture. The youth may afford to be impoverished and lack job experience, but we cannot afford to be divided. That is where our strength lies." Buluma advised the youth to use their numerical strength to further their cause. "According to the statistics of this country, the youth constitute the majority. Yet, based on the voting pattern, that majority was not reflected," Buluma said. "That is why we have chosen to gather the young lawmakers, only to guarantee that they adhere to the goal that brought them to parliament and prevent extraneous diversions." He asked the youth to address their issues through the young MPs because not everyone is permitted to enter the Parliament Buildings. "I'll take from Nairobi Governor Johnson Sakaja's popular statement that if you are not on the negotiation table, then you must be part of the menu," he said. "The only people who can bring the youth back to the bargaining table are young MPs because they have the necessary platform to vent our complaints."