Some of the world's weirdest foods may seem strange to us, but they're a common delicacy in many cultures around the globe and also an essential part of the cultures we are going to highlight in this article. From Kenya, Sweden, Singapore, Mexico, and the Philippines...buckle up, and let's dive in! 1. Raw kidney and blood This dish is famous among the Maasai community in Kenya and Tanzania. Once a goat or cow has been slaughtered, the Maasais skin it and extract the inner organs such as the intestines, kidneys, and liver. The Maasai then proceed and cut one of the kidneys open and consume it raw. Mark Wiens, a famous travel vlogger describes it as ''naturally salty and surprisingly sweet." The locals also don't fear or hesitate to consume the fresh blood of the slaughtered animal, sometimes they mix it with milk. Wow, only the adventurous can indulge in this. 2. Lion meat Surprised?!... You should be, lion meat is consumed in the Mezcal region of Mexico. The meat is served with tortilla(a type of flat bread) alongside onions and salsa, on top of that the meat is served grilled to give it a steak-like appearance. Sonny a  popular travel vlogger describes it as ''beefy, chewy, and oily.'' Although he did seem that impressed with the flavor. 3.Surströmming(fermeneted Baltic sea herring) Let's head over to Sweden where Surströmming is enjoyed. The dish is packed in an air-tight can containing water and salt. The fermented fish is popularly consumed with bread or potato accompanied with onions or chives. Rhett a famous show host of The good mythical morning once opened a can of fish and said that "This is the worst thing I have ever smelled in my life.'' Surströmming has been described to smell similar to sewage. 4. Durian fruit The durian fruit is popularly consumed in Singapore, and it has been described as the world's smelliest fruit. The smell of this thorny fruit has caused it to be banned from public transport mediums in some countries. Some people tend to enjoy this fruit and it has been proven to be healthy for the human body its benefits include, reducing the risk of cancer and heart diseases, improving skin and hair health, and regulating blood sugar levels. 5. Balut( fertilized duck egg) Balut is a popularly known Filipino delicacy made from incubated duck eggs. Upon removing the eggshell one is surprised by an unborn duck in the middle. Spicyycam the spice king, a food blogger says,'' it's the sight of the egg that makes it hard to consume but the flavor is not that bad, it tastes like boiled eggs and chicken soup." Are you adventurous enough to try any of these meals?