The EACC has seized crucial documents from Uasin Gishu county to investigate if money was lost in a scholarship programme affecting 380 students studying in Finland. The scholarship programme was coordinated by the county government but it was run by a registered trust and no public money was used to fund it. The county acted as a guarantor for the students. The programme has run into problems and some of the students risk deportation from Finland due to non-payment of fees. Uasin Gishu Governor Jonathan Bii has also suspended three county officials over the matter. Bii said the three, whom he did not name, would remain away to pave the way for investigations by the EACC, DCI and auditors. The Uasin Gishu county assembly, which has been investigating the matter, recommended the suspension of the three officials to facilitate the probe. The assembly said it had noted illegal activities concerning the programme. Bii spoke after a crisis meeting with his cabinet to discuss the scholarship issue. EACC officials at the Eldoret office said they would later give details on the probe. “We will not tolerate anyone who will be found culpable in any way,” Bii said. The probe was initiated after students and their families claimed they have lost millions of shillings in the scholarship programme. Bii said the programme is run independent of county government by a trust and no public funds were used to fund it. “This therefore means that no public funds were or will be appropriated to fund this programme," Bii said in a statement. He said the programme was created to enable parents who did not have the ability to obtain bank statements or even bank accounts to support the visa application process. Bii said as part of the requirement for visa applications, six months' accommodation in Finland, first semester fees, and pathway studies must be paid for and proof of payment attached during visa applications. The county coordinated visa applications to help the students. However, there are claims that parents paid money to the county which was to be forwarded to the respective universities but part of it was not wired to the institutions. Failure to wire the money led to the current situation in which the universities have threatened to terminate the programme and send back the students. Bii said he had also received a report from the county assembly, which will be implemented after discussions by his cabinet.