UDA supporters in Mwingi, Kitui county, have applauded the shortlisting of Nairobi lawyer Paul Musyimi for CAS interviews. Archbishop Rev Julius Nyerere said it was the prayer of UDA diehards that Musyimi will secure the CAS position. “The clergy in Mwingi really appreciates the President for the shortlisting of our son. Paul Musyimi is competent, professional, equal to the task,” said a statement from the cleric on Thursday. The Public Service Commission started interviewing candidates for the Chief Administrative Secretary positions on Wednesday. The exercise will take five days. Only 240 candidates from more than 4,000 who applied were shortlisted. Musyimi is scheduled to appear before the board on Friday. Nyerere said the shortlisting of Musyimi presents President William Ruto with an opportunity to appoint someone from Mwingi to a senior position in his Kenya Kwanza government. The head of Mwingi-based Messiahship Worship Church said Musyimi deserves to be rewarded for his steadfast support and loyalty to UDA. By appointing Musyimi, Ruto would also have taken care of the interests of the larger Mwingi region, he said. The clergyman said Kitui county is demographically divided into two: the larger Kitui region and the larger Mwingi region. He said the larger Kitui region has so far benefited from a number of appointments, including a Cabinet secretary post and principal secretary post. Tourism CS Peninah Malonza and Sports PS Jonathan Mueke come from the larger Kitui region. “Regional balance is key...It's good to be fair and I request our able President to consider Mwingi region to get that CAS position,” Nyerere said. Musyimi is the only person from Mwingi region shortlisted for the CAS interviews. Journalist and politician Boniface Musambi and Stephen Kilonzo, who lost his bid for Kitui senator in the August 8, 2022 election, both of whom are from the larger Kitui region, have also been shortlisted. “Since we have a CS and a PS from Kitui region, we pray that the CAS position will come to Mwingi,” Nyerere said. “Presidential votes from larger Mwingi were not in vain. We will appreciate it if the President appoints the able Paul Musyimi.” Part-time university lecturer Martha Mati also drummed up support for Musyimi. “Paul was very instrumental in the popularisation of the UDA party and the presidential campaign,” said Mati, who is from Mwingi North, on a social media post. Former Migwani MCA Philip Nguli said Musyimi has proved equal to the task having stood by Ruto since 2013. He said the lawyer merited being a CAS having played many strategic roles in the presidential election campaigns and the Kenya Kwanza manifesto. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya