Kitui government has put in place plans to build a road along Kitui-Tana River county border to keep intruders from encroaching into the South Kitui and Mwingi game reserves. Kitui Deputy Governor Augustine Kanani, lamented that the lack of a clear and well-defined border marking the protected areas has militated against conservation efforts due to human-wildlife conflict. AdChoices He said Governor Julius Malombe is set to institute wildlife conservation initiatives which include the planned Kitui-Tana River border overt cutline. The two game reserves lie in the peripheral areas of Kitui county that neighbour Tana River. Pastoralists from the Northeastern region consistently drive their livestock into the reserves resulting in serious decimation of wildlife numbers. Kitui MCAs have often alleged that the invasion of the protected areas by camel herders from the Northeastern has aggravated banditry and killings in the county. Kanani on Friday said that the idea behind the planned cutline was to discourage encroachment into the two protected areas. He said it will further mitigate human-wildlife conflict to boost conservation and attract tourism. The deputy governor spoke during celebrations to mark World Wildlife Day at Nyamboni Primary School grounds in Kitui on Friday. The celebration for the Eastern Conservation Area stakeholders brought together players from Meru National Park, Kora National Park, Mwingi Game Reserve and Bisnadi National Reserve Conservation Circuit. This time around, Kitui hosted the annual event that is usually held on a rotational basis within the Eastern Conservation Area. It was sponsored by the Kenya Wildlife Service. The event's theme was 'Partnerships for Wildlife Conservation.' Also present were young conservationists from local primary and secondary schools' wildlife and environmental clubs as well as tertiary institutions and universities. The occasion offered conservation stakeholders a platform to exchange views on areas of partnership in the promotion of harmonious human-wildlife co-existence.