Defence Cabinet Secretary Aden Duale on Sunday reiterated the government's commitment to deal with banditry and the al Shabaab menace. His remarks come at a time when there have been heightened attacks in Northeastern parts of the Coast Region and North Rift. Several lives have been lost including security officers and development has also been greatly undermined. He was speaking during the graduation ceremony at Madarasatul Khadija in Garissa town. The most recent attack occurred two weeks ago when two security officers were killed and two others injured after their vehicle ran on an IED at Hagarbur near Dadaab, Garissa County. In North rift, incidents of banditry have left hundreds dead and others injured with animals stolen in the past months despite operations to tame the trend. Duale called on Kenyans, especially in areas affected by insecurity to work closely with the security apparatus in not only identifying criminals hiding in their midst but also being ambassadors of peace. “The people of Northern Kenya you must get this one right for me, as a government we will make sure that from banditry to terrorism, we smoke them out everybody,” he said. “For Kenya to prosper, for the economy to grow, for our children to go to school, we must have peace and security." The former Garissa township MP  said that the country will invest in the best types of equipment as well as the country’s special teams noting that the country cannot be taken hostage by a few criminal gangs and militants. Last month, CS Duale gazetted the deployment of Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) to North Rift to contain banditry after President Ruto ordered a joint operation with the National Police Service. In the notice, Duale said KDF would help the National Police Service deal with the security emergency in Turkana, West Pokot, Elgeyo Marakwet, Baringo, Laikipia and Samburu Counties. On Wednesday Last week, Duale visited various forward operating areas in the North Rift to check on the progress of the ongoing operation against banditry in the region. During his visit to ‘Operation Maliza Uhalifu’ North Rift, Duale reaffirmed the government’s commitment to end banditry, and restore peace and normalcy in the six counties declared as dangerous and disturbed.