Teachers from Eldas constituency in Wajir have been urged not to send students home for fees. MP Adan Keynan says the drought has made it difficult for parents to raise the levies. Most residents depend on their livestock but the drought has immensely affected them and most of their animals have died. Keynan said sending students home is not a solution since parents don’t have money to pay school fees due to the prevailing circumstances. He was speaking on Sunday at Elnur Secondary School in Elnur/Tula Tula ward when he launched the disbursement of Sh35.5 million Eldas NG-CDF bursary funds to support learners in different secondary schools, colleges and universities. “My administration has allocated Sh33.5 million in the first phase of disbursement, with a similar amount to be released for the next term in the 2023-24 financial year to sustain this noble cause that strives to shape and bring hope to the next generation of leaders and development drivers,” the MP said. He said he is committed to working round the clock to improve education in the constituency. Keynan, who was accompanied by deputy county commissioner Misheck Mwangi, said the region has gone through a very rough patch following five failed rain seasons. He said education is among sectors hit hard by the drought. “Parents who would otherwise sell their livestock to pay school fees for their children have lost their livestock to drought. Many have been left  with huge debts they incurred buying animal feed,” Keynan said. The Jubilee party vice chairperson urged state and non-state actors to continue supporting residents with food to avert loss of lives. “I would like to take this opportunity to appreciate the civil societies, the national government and humanitarian agencies who have been supporting us in terms of food aid and cash transfer across the county. As leaders, we continue to call for more well-wishers to join hands and support the initiative,” Keynan said. Parent Hussein Abdi said the drought has made life difficult for parents, especially those with students in secondary and other institutions of higher learning. Wajir, like other counties in Northern Kenya, is experiencing a severe drought, which has led to the depletion of pasture and water. The National Drought and Management Authority has issued an alert over declining livestock health and milk production. According to NDMA, 550,000 people in Wajir county are food insecure. In its January bulletin, it paints a worrying picture for 23 counties that have been classified as either in the alarm or alert phase of the drought. Wajir is in the alarm phase. A report by the authority states that the average distance to water for both households and livestock is increasing by the day as most animals and households rely on water pans. On Monday last week, East African Community, ASALs and Regional Development CS Rebecca Miano led a relief food distribution drive in the county. She said her ministry is working closely with the Interior ministry to ensure relief aid reaches the intended people. Education CS Ezekiel Machogu was also in the county to launch the school feeding programme