Mathare United head coach Samuel Koko was over the moon after his charges upset Kenyan Premier League leaders Gor 2-1 at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Wednesday. David Kibet put the Slum Boys ahead barely eight minutes into the play, giving his side the much-needed slim advantage heading into the breather. After a flurry of missed opportunities by both sides, mercurial striker Benson Omalla struck the back of the net in the 64th minute, bringing his season's tally to 17 goals. But, with only eight minutes of regulation time remaining, Daniel Okoth scored a last-gasp winner for the Slum Boys. Mathare hung on to their slender lead until the final whistle to record their fifth win of the season, which drove them to 15th place and away from the dreaded relegation zone. "This is a delicious triumph. Few anticipated us to overcome Gor, especially given their strong record this season," Koko said excitedly in a post-match interview. "I'd like to congratulate the players for their efforts this afternoon. Given the amount of fight we put up throughout the match, we deserved even better outcomes. Our perseverance and commitment are finally paying off." Koko praised the team's devoted fans for being there for them in good and bad times. "They are incredible people, and their unwavering support has pushed the team to new heights. We are grateful for their tremendous support "Koko stated. As Koko and his charges marvelled over their splendid performance, his opposite number John McKinstry said his charges were unfortunate to have lost the match. "We simply had a bad day in the office. We did almost everything right but failed to make use of the opportunities we created in the match," McKinstry said. "Our opponents also made life difficult for us by parking the bus and throwing more bodies at the back," he added. "It's quite a setback but we still have more matches coming up and I believe we shall be bouncing back strongly against our next opponent. "Gor remain in the leaderboard with 37 points, four clear of second-placed Nzoia Sugar who are level on points with KCB but enjoy a healthier goal difference. In another match, Kariobangi Sharks collected maximum away points after popping hosts Wazito 3-1 at Muhoroni stadium. The match was delayed for almost half an hour as the visitors declined to take to the pitch until the home team availed a fully equipped ambulance. Elsewhere, Talanta beat Vihiga Bullets 2-1