Amani National Congress has told off UDA party Secretary General Cleophas Malala over calls to a merger. The party through its leadership has said despite its commitment to support the Kenya Kwanza coalition, it will not dissolve to join UDA. "The leadership discussed among other issues the talk about merging. For the avoidance of doubt, ANC Party is not merging neither today or in the future," reads a statement. On Sunday, ANC Party Council Bureau held a consultative meeting under the leadership of the Party Leader, Abdallah Timamy in Lamu County Timamay further said that ANC  will continue to play its role in the Kenya Kwanza Coalition particularly helping President William Ruto to deliver the coalition manifesto plan to Kenyans. He added that amidst the high cost of living, drought and a record number of Kenya seeking opportunities, ANC Party is focused on improving the lives of Kenyans through its legislators in Parliament. Timamay also announced mass recruitment of members to the party. "There will be massive grassroot activities including mass recruitment of members and political education in the branches among others," he said. The statement comes as UDA SG Malala emphasized the need to dissolve other parties within the Kenya Kwanza coalition and join UDA. Malala said that discussions were underway on the issue. "Issue of parties to fold is an ongoing discussion within Kenya Kwanza. It is a suggestion that has been brought about by our party UDA to ensure we have a strategy toward winning 2027 general elections," he said. Malala told senior government officials in the Kenya Kwanza administration who are still clinging to their parties to choose between being in government or quitting the positions and holding on to their political outfits. “One of my mandates is to begin a dialogue with our partners so as to ensure we have one party against our opponents. We cannot have one government and several colours, that is our position and we shall talk to others," he explained.