Buruburu Soccer Academy from Nairobi has promised to light up the Rausha Kipaji tournament on its first visit. The Nakuru Athletics Club will host the annual local showcase from April 28 to 30. Dancun Karani, academy director, stated that their main goal was to provide young athletes with an opportunity to demonstrate and enhance their talents as they prepare for other contests. "We have talented young boys who need to play in such youth events to enable them to improve their talent and also to offer them an opportunity to demonstrate their ability at an early age. This will prepare them for more difficult competitions," Karani explained. Karani, who has previously played for AFC Leopards, Gor Mahia, and Mahakama on the local scene, is also an FKF-accredited coach. He said that their focus at this early period in a child's life was to polish  skills and ignite the necessary interest in the game. "We also give opportunities to the kids to experience real-time competition to gain experience at an early age and better understanding of the game.” The academy, which is located in Nairobi's Buruburu estate in the huge Eastland neighborhood, accepts children aged seven to 19 years. It has well-trained and certified youth coaches who have obtained the Football Kenya Federation (FKF) and CAF coaching license and certification, as well as child safety courses to provide them with the abilities to care for children. Kenn Okaka, co-director and a communications and public relations specialist, stated that the competition in Nakuru will expose the youngsters to competitive football and help them build confidence to play teams from other regions. "This event, like other games we engage in, provides an opportunity for the students to develop their confidence as they face teams they have never faced before and those from outside of Nairobi," Okaka said. "Our objective is to be the leading football academy in Kenya for young players to nurture, develop, display, expose, and monetize football potential," Okaka continued.