Nairobi The name Nairobi is a Maasai term meaning a place of cool waters. Nairobi was set as the capital city of Kenya in 1907. The town is located in the south-central part of the country, in the highlands at an elevation of about 5,500 feet (1,680 meters). Today the town boasts colourful street art, towering buildings, state-of-the-art infrastructure, and a rich history. Famous landmarks that define and dart the Nairobi skyline are the Kenyatta international conference centre (KICC), GTC Nairobi, and The Old Mutual building among others. Eldoret This town is the principal of Rift Valley. The name Eldoret is derived from the Massai word 'eldore', which literally means stony river, the sosiani river is very stony hence this name. The town came into being in the year 1910 with the construction of a post office on site. Today the town is known to be a very good education hub with universities such as Moi University, University of Eldoret, and Baraton university. The town is also known to be home to the best marathon runners in Kenya. Nakuru Nakuru is a city in the Rift Valley region of the Republic of Kenya. The town derives its name from the Maasai word ''Naguuro'' which means a dusty place. The town was founded in 1904 by the British. Today this town is known to be a very busy transit town alongside harbouring the famous Lake Nakuru National Park, a very famous tourist attraction. Recently the town has been ranked as the fastest-growing town in Africa, in fact, Nakuru is now a fully-fledged city. Mombasa This city was the first capital city of British East Africa. This city served as a port for incoming dhows and boats from India, Portugal, and China. Its original Arabic name is Manbasa. In Kiswahili, it is called "Kisiwa Cha Mvita", which means "Island of War". Today Mombasa is known to have a fusion of Swahili culture while still having a vibrant modern culture. Signature landmarks in Mombasa are Fort Jesus, TSS tower, and Mombasa G.P.O among others. Which one of these cities are you looking forward to visiting?