Ukambani residents have raised alarm over the increased donkey theft from Machakos, Kitui and Makueni counties. This has been attributed to a thriving donkey trade in the region as the the three counties and neighbouring Kajiado county have high donkey populations. Demand for donkey hide is high in East Asia for traditional  medicine and skin whitening. That fuels the theft and trade and hurts farmers and traders. The most affected areas include Kithyoko at the border of Machakos and Kitui counties, and Kabati and Kisasi (both in Kitui). They said the donkeys are stolen, sold and transported to other counties in lorries to be slaughtered. "You get people losing donkeys at night and in the morning carcasses are found in thickets. We suspect that some major butcheries, especially in Kithyoko and Kabati, sell donkey meat," a source who declined to be mentioned said. But donkey traders said the theft in Machakos, Kitui, Makueni and Kajiado counties should not be exaggerated, adding that just like cattle, goats and sheep, donkeys also get lost. Some dismissed claims that donkeys were slaughtered and consumed by unsuspecting locals, while others said there was nothing wrong with eating donkey meat. “I’m one of those who used to buy donkeys and take them to slaughterhouses across the country. But, as we continued doing the trade, all slaughterhouses were closed down during Covid-19 in 2020,” Titus Mwaniki, a donkey trader, said at Mwingi cattle market in Kitui county. Mwaniki said donkeys no longer get to slaughterhouses since they were all closed. He said they only sell donkeys to households who use them for domestic chores. The slaughterhouses include Goldox Kenya Ltd located at Mogotio, Baringo county, Star Brillant Ltd in Naivasha, Nakuru county, Silzha Ltd in Lodwar, Turkana county and Fuhal Machakos Trading Co Ltd located at the border of Machakos — Kitui counties closed by the government two years ago. The first three donkey slaughterhouses are located in the Rift Valley region. They were established in April 2016, September 2016 and March 2017 respectively. Some of the traders disclosed that they were still buying donkeys in large numbers and ferrying them to other counties across the country. Majority they said were destined to Central Kenya, especially Limuru in Kiambu county. Bernard Nzinga, 66, said he had traded in donkeys for 14 years stating that the animal’s meat was a delicacy consumed by many not only in Kitui county, but across the country just like beef. “We eat donkey meat and many Kenyans consume it as well, it has got no health risks,” Nzinga said. Nzinga said closure of the abattoirs had interfered with donkey business in the country. He said prices of the animal had declined; the animal he said cost between Sh13,000 and Sh17, 000 with its hide selling at Sh3, 000, when the slaughterhouses were operational. He said donkeys cost between Sh4,000 and Sh7,000 currently. He confirmed that as traders they transport donkeys in lorries to other counties like Kiambu for sale. Mwangangi Kunzu, Kyuso resident in Kitui who also trades in donkeys, said the closed slaughterhouses slaughtered approximately 700 donkeys in a day when they were operational. Kunzu said he had traded in the business for five years. “I worked in Baringo, Naivasha and Kithyoko before the slaughterhouses were closed,” Kunzu said. Communities using donkeys for domestic work have maintained that the animal wasn’t food hence shouldn’t be slaughtered. They said the abattoirs should remain closed as the government cracks down on those who unlawfully slaughter the animal in thickets and sell its meat to unsuspecting Kenyans posing health risks. There are claims that Kitui was the main source of donkeys which end up in the Kenyan market as meat after they are irregularly slaughtered in thickets and undisclosed places. This is due to the fact that the county has the highest number of donkeys in the country. Mwingi Central veterinary officer Dr. Peter Gathayo said Kitui  had over 160, 000 donkeys with Mwingi Central donkey population standing at 17, 000. “Major issues that we encounter in donkeys are animal welfare issues related such as trade. We have been having some donkeys being traded outside this subcounty although in 2021 we withdrew movement permits for donkeys so that we could reduce donkey movements in this subcounty,” Gathayo said. He said it was the decision of the Kitui Government to withdraw those movement permits.. An official from the county government last Friday told the Star in one of the markets that they issue donkey movement permits to traders though they don’t follow up on the destinations where individual businessmen state they were transporting the animals. “You see these lorries here, they are used to transport cattle, goats, sheep, pigs and donkeys. Most of the donkeys are transported from this market to Kiambu, especially Limuru subcounty. We don’t follow up whether the donkeys get to the stated destinations after issuing the permits,” a Kitui revenue collector who declined to be mentioned said. The Star obtained a copy of permit purportedly generated by an official from Kitui's veterinary department authorising movements of 20 donkeys from the county to Limuru, Kiambu. The document was, however, meant to be issued to traders seeking to only move cattle, sheep, goats and pigs. It was dated 28-10-2022. Inades Formation Kenya managing director Joseph Munywoki condemned the act and those involved in donkey slaughter syndicate. The non-governmental organisation works with communities towards improvement of donkeys’ welfare in Machakos, Makueni and Kajiado counties. “We last week witnessed the slaughtering of more than 1,000 donkeys that happened in Kiambu. Inades condemns the act, we are glad that it has been exposed because there has been some movements that we have been monitoring,” Munywoki said. He said as an organisation, they had also been monitoring market engagements and sale of donkeys in market. “We have been suspecting there could be some activities happening relating to mistreatment of donkeys in terms of either slaughter or being taken to areas they are being slaughtered for either meat or hide All the abattoirs in the country were closed,” Munywoki said. “We believe that majority of those donkeys that were slaughtered in Kiambu were transported from counties where we work; Machakos, partly Makueni and Kajiado. But, majority came from our neighboring Kitui county,” he said. Multiple sources including those involved in donkey trade told the Star that the animals were discreetly slaughtered due to the fact that the slaughterhouses where they used to take them had been closed down, yet they had to continue with their livelihoods. Caritas Kenya — the Kitui branch chief in charge of advocacy Martin Mwendwa said donkeys were the main contributors to community livelihoods in Kitui. “The Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Livestock department report 2014 states that in Kitui we have 169,000 donkeys. This calls for community and stakeholders engagements to encourage community members to practice good breeding in Kitui,” Mwendwa said. “Donkeys aren’t being bred because they are doing a lot of work, the nature of work is a lot, also it takes take a lot of time to nurse their young ones. So, it calls for the government to make sure they sensitise community members on importance of donkey breeding,” Mwendwa said. According to CIDP 2014-2019 report, Kitui's poverty index stands at 65 per cent. “Most people can’t save money to buy motorisone t iveed vehicles. So, they have to walk one to five kilometres to water points to fetch the commodity,” Mwendwa said. (Edited by V. Graham)