Two unidentified bodies have been found in separate areas within Machakos County. Police retrieved the bodies from Mavoko and Matungulu sub-counties on Monday. One of the bodies was picked from a quarry in Lukenya area, Mavoko subcounty, and moved to Kangundo Level 4 hospital mortuary. The second body was found at Mua in Kenol area within the Matungulu subcounty. Both bodies were necked when they were found. Machakos county police commander Joseph Ole Napeiyan said respective area OCSs were headed to the scenes. "OCS will respond. They are on the way," Napeiyan told the Star on phone. Napeiyan said detectives were probing possible murder in both incidences. In the first incident, police said the body of an unknown male adult aged about 38 was found lying under a Railway line bridge within the Tuskys area in Athi River town. The incident was reported to Athi River police station at around 11.50 am as murder incident report by area assistant chief Cosmas Musyoka. "The chief reported that a dead body was found within Tuskys area on the Railway line bridge. Police officers visited the scene and body of the unknown male adult aged about 38 years was found with deep cuts on the back and the face with blood stains around the area, some bunch of keys were also recovered at the scene," Ole Napeiyan said. The police boss said Athi River DCI sleuths processed the scene and the body was moved to Machakos Level 5 Hospital mortuary awaiting autopsy. In the second incident, a man's body was found dumped beside the roadside at Ivovoani area along Machakos- Komarock Road in Mavoko subcounty on Monday. The incident was reported to Joska police station as the recovery of the dead body report. Police said the incident was reported by Lukenya chief Tirus Ndambuki. "The chief reported that at around 12.00 pm, he received information from members of the public that there was a body beside the said road," Napeiyan said. "The scene was visited by STAPOL Joska with DCI officers from Kyumbi police station. The body of an unknown African male adult aged approximately 26 years was found naked facing upwards having multiple injuries over the body. "With no signs of struggle at the scene, suggesting that the person might have been killed elsewhere and thereafter body dumped at the scene." Ole Napeiyan said no identification documents were recovered from him. The scene was processed and the body was moved to Machakos Level 5 hospital Mortuary awaiting postmortem.