Great Plains Foundation on Tuesday distributed relief food to 29 schools in the Mbirrikani ward. The Foundation is a wildlife conservancy in the Kajiado subcounty. The distribution took place at the Shilishili Primary School in Mbirrikani group ranch where food for 8,628 children in ECD, primary schools and secondary schools were put into caravans for delivery to the marked schools. Great Plains said it has focused to support education by ensuring no child misses school. “Every child in our area of operation will now have access to a healthy balanced meal in addition to education to increase their opportunity in life,” programmes manager Georgie Hextall said. Hextall said his foundation is grateful that it has put smiles on the faces of many, adding that the biggest challenge during the ongoing drought is feeding hungry children. “There is no way that a hungry child will concentrate on his or her studies on an empty stomach. This is our greatest opportunity to stand with the hungry members of the community in their time of need,” Hextall said. Over 900 community members attended the launch, including school kids and the school children's parents. Former Kajiado deputy governor Paul Ntiati, community elders, and many other community members were also in attendance. “This is a good intervention as it supports mothers too, as they don’t need to feed their child at home as there is food at school,” Ntiati, who  also chairs the local drought mitigation task force, said. He said that from last year, the number of students going to school had decreased but due to the intervention of partners such as the Great Plains Foundation, there has been a retention of 8,628 children in school. "We have launched this programme to help this community as the drought crisis has challenged them," Ntiati added. The Community liaison officer in Amboseli region, Kinyaku Konee, said the feeding programme is having a huge impact, encouraging school children to come to school, receive nutritious food and progress in their education. “Before this programme, the number of kids attending schools was low at 50 per cent but since the start of the programme, we are at 100 per cent,” Konee said. “We have an issue with malnutrition in this area so this food is improving the kids' nutrition and improving performance,” chairman of Mbirrikani Group Ranch Teachers’ Association, Peter Lekanayia said. Kenya has experienced diminished rainfall over the past two years leading to severe drought in the country. Communities where the Great Plains Foundation has its operations are mainly pastoralists who depend on their livestock for income. The ongoing drought has led to a devastating loss of livestock in Kajiado county, which is one of the Great Plain's areas of operation. As a result, families are going without food and water and parents are unable to pay school fees.