Gusii sports legends have partnered with four schools to nurture and promote athletics in Kisii and Nyamira counties. The Gusii Sports Legends Welfare Society director, Alfred Momanyi yesterday said they have identified Manga Sengera Mixed, Kiendege, Kebabe Girls in Nyamira and Bishop Mugendi Nyakegogi secondary schools for partnership. The group brings together former and current athletes from Kisii and Nyamira counties, who are keen to restore the region’s lost glory in athletics. Manga Sengera principal Tom Onsongo welcomed the Initiative. “I’m ready to work with other stakeholders to promote sports, especially athletics in Nyamira,” said Momanyi, who is also the Nyanza Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Association treasurer. Momanyi added: “We have held talks with the management of the schools and agreed to have training camps in the institutions.” He spoke ahead of the Magwagwa Cross Country Championships, which is organized by the legends in conjunction with the Nyamira County Government. The race will be held on Sunday at Esanige playground in North Mugirango and Nyamira County Governor Amos Nyaribo will be the chief guest. “The governor is a sports enthusiast and we are happy that he has accepted to partner with us in promoting athletics in the county,” added Momanyi The race will feature six categories thus 2k for kids aged 7-12 years, 6km for junior women, 8km for junior men and 10km for senior women and men. There will also be a race for persons living with a disability. “Athletes keen on participating in the 21km Nyamira Great Run in April are welcome to improve their speed,” added Momanyi. Other events lined up by the legends include the Nyantika Maiyoro 10km race in Kisii town on March 26, the Naftali Temu Memorial Cross County in Nyamira on May 15 and Motonto Cross Country in Kisii on June 11. The Robert Omwanza Memorial race will be held on August 20 in Kisii County before the series conclude with the Robert Ouko Sports Day to be held at Manga in Nyamira on December 7.