Entrench the security duties of National Government Administration Officers (NGAO) in the constitution to enable them to play their roles effectively, the government has been asked. The officers want to be listed as part of the security organs in the constitution to give drive to the key security role they play at both levels including national, regional, county, Sub-County and locations. This will see the officers working under the Ministry of Interior and National Administration listed alongside the Kenya Defense Forces, the National Police Service and the National Intelligence Service as security organs. Nalianya Wanyonyi, Kisumu West Deputy County Commissioner (DCC), said the officers who include Regional Commissioners, County Commissioners, Deputy County Commissioners, Assistant County Commissioners, Chiefs and Assistant Chiefs lacked a proper framework through which to effectively play the roles. Wanyonyi said with the promulgation of the 2010 constitution, the officers cede control of the Administration Police making it difficult for them to enforce security directives. He noted that the NPS was independent and for their officers to enforce some directives on security, it entirely depends on the relationship you have with the respective police bosses in your area of operation. “The National Government Coordination Act 2012 under which the officers operate does not clearly stipulate the roles the officers are expected to play on matters of security. In case of any occurrence, it is the NGAO officers who are engaged first. Therefore there is a need to entrench them in the constitution as agents of security so that they are clearly told their roles on matters of security,” he said. The DCC noted that the move will bolster security in the country while at the same time enhancing its efficiency. He was Speaking in Kisumu during a sensitization meeting organized by the Victims Protection Board. However, Senior State Council Bildad Keke from the Victims Protection Board noted that the statements raised by the administrators were vital and they will look into the matter. Keke noted that there was a need for proper recognition in the law for officers including chiefs and assistant chiefs to ensure they administer their duties effectively while protecting them at the same time. “When they are well anchored in law, they will have legislation giving them jurisdiction and powers to operate in a decent environment and with the legislation, they can effectively coordinate the issue of security which is key." He also noted that during the meeting issues of illicit brew came up as a big concern to the chiefs with the administrators making various proposals including classifying it as a capital offence. “We will look at all the proposals we have been given during this meeting which is part of the board's programme to sensitize the officers as it seeks collaboration to fulfil its mandate." The board currently plans to visit 12 counties this financial year to create awareness of its mandate and services. The board advises the government on inter-agency activities aimed at protecting victims of crime and at the same time charged with the implementation of preventive and rehabilitative programmes for victims of crime.