More than 300 rice farmers in Kochia in Rangwe constituency, Homa Bay county are counting losses after hailstones destroyed their crops. At least 100 acres of rice field was destroyed during a storm last week. The farmers were expecting a bumper harvest in the next two weeks. Due to the current economic situation, the farmers expected to harvest and sell their produce to residents at Sh30,000 for a 90kg bag and even higher because of high demand. The farmers spent between Sh20,000-Sh50,000 per acre in land preparation and planting of the crop. Last September, the farmers came together to grow rice on a 100-acre piece of land under an irrigation block. But on Friday, the farmers led by Rose Akumu said they are counting losses after hailstones destroyed their crops. They expected to supply their produce to schools with each expecting at least 50 bags of 90kg each. “The high expectation we had on the crops has been quashed. The storm made rice fall off and destroyed the crop just two weeks to full maturity,” Akumu said. Rice should be harvested when its panicles start drying. In the event of hailstones, the seeds are destroyed and detached from the main stem. The seeds fall in the paddy field which is muddy, making it impossible to hand-pick them. Juma Rapemo is among the farmers who lost his crop. He said his farm is not insured and he did not anticipate any losses. “All my dreams of building a new house and clearing my children's school fees are shuttered. The Homa Bay government should come to our aid since we didn’t insure the crops,” Rapemo said. Rapemo is among the farmers who have resorted to selling their destroyed crops to cattle farmers. Another farmer, Nyagilo Oduor urged the county to help them in land preparation and planting by providing subsidised fertiliser and free tractor services. “It will be prudent if the Homa Bay government can compensate us even though we never insured the crops,” Oduor said. The farmers also called for more support, saying they have been struggling to control birds that invade their farms. The farmers have now resorted to selling dry leaves to their dairy counterparts to cushion themselves from losses. The farmers grow their rice crops using water from Kimira-Oluch Small-Holder Farm Irrigation Improvement Project (Kosfip). This has enabled active farming all year round due to the continuous supply of water. River Awach is the source of water.  (Edited by Tabnacha O)