Amani National Congress leaders in Kakamega County have faulted the move suggested by former branch Chairman Cleophas Malala to have the ANC and other sister parties in the Kenya Kwanza coalition dissolved and merged with United Democratic Alliance, UDA. The leaders including the former chairman Julias Arunga, the acting CEO Benson Abuyabo, ANC Women Coordinator Ruth Ombayo, Nec member Tony Maleche, youth leader Emmanuel Buchichi, and ANC nominated MCA Nivea Oluchiri among others said the party was still intact and will never be dissolved or merge with any other party. They spoke during a leadership consultative meeting at the branch office on Thursday. Last week Malala was appointed Secretary General of the United Democratic Alliance (UDA) party in an acting capacity and declared his departure from Musalia Mudavadi’s ANC party. The immediate former Kakamega senator announced a one-party dream to be used by President William Ruto in his 2027 re-election. He set an August deadline for Kenya Kwanza Alliance affiliates to fold. The leaders condemned Malala saying he had ulterior motives of killing the two major parties that belonged to the Luhya community, ANC and Ford-K. “We are still solid as a party and have no intentions whatsoever to join or merge with any other party. ANC is still intact and whatever Malala said was a personal opinion.” Arunga stated They said ANC leaders had a vision when they formed the party and that vision has not been realized yet and merging it with other parties will kill the vision, mission and dream of the founders of the party. “When we formed ANC with Musalia Mudavadi, we had the vision to take one of our own and non-other than Mudavid to the top seat. Our vision has not been realized yet and we cannot dissolve the party along the way." "As from next week we are going to comb through the county as we popularize the party and recruit more members,” acting CEO Benson Abuyabo said The leaders however said they will support President William Ruto’s governance for two terms as ANC party. Nominated MCA Nivea Oluchiri said the 19 ANC MCAs in the Kakamega County assembly are solidly behind strengthening ANC as a party and have no time for wrangles within the Kenya Kwanza coalition. “We already have other parties which are against Kenya Kwanza government and introducing wrangles within the ruling coalition will not be healthy for us. "We already have our work clearly cut for us to fight hunger, create jobs and provide sustainable health care to our people and we cannot waste time-fighting within the coalition,” Oluchiri stated ANC aspirant for Matungu in the last elections Alex Lanya said all the 12 candidates in Kakamega including two elected members of parliament Malulu Injendi(Malava) and Fred Ikana(Shinyalu) were still intact in the party and that they would only get direction from all the Kenya kwanza leadership including Musalia Mudavadi(ANC), Ford-K’s Moses Wetangula and President William Ruto of UDA not from any other person. Youth leader Emmanuel Buchichi said the youth still had trust in Musalia Mudavadi as ANC leader and anybody intending to fold ANC had the intention to finish Mudavadi. “Mudavadi landed the position he has now because of the strength of the ANC party and we are saying that we shall offer our full support to President William Ruto and the Kenya Kwanza coalition as youths in the ANC party,” said Buchichi.