Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua has opened up on how he was settled on as a running mate ahead of the August 9, 2022, general election. While thanking Interior Cabinet Secretary Kindiki Kithure for agreeing to back him for the position, Gachagua said the issue became a big 'headache' for President William Ruto. “Huyu professor mimi nataka kushukuru yeye sana, siku rais alikuwa anatafuta running mate akaona mimi and professor tunatosha akaona pale amekwama. Mimi ni mchapa kazi na professor ni mchapa kazi, mimi ni mwaminifu yeye ni mwaminifu, tumekwama." (I want to thank the professor. When the president was looking for a running mate he saw that I am competent and so is the professor, I am a hard worker and professor is also a hard worker. I am honest and professor is honest and we were stuck). " He explained that after a 17-hour deliberation with no solution, they were asked to sit and agree on who would take up the post. He said since he was older than Kindiki, he had to convince him to leave the position to him so that in return he will be awarded a bigger position if they win. "When we talked I told him that I am a bit older so aniwachie mimi na yeye tuendelee and tukipata apatiwe ingine kubwa," he said. Gachagua was speaking during a church service at Chuka in Tharaka Nithi in which the President was the chief guest. The DP had lined up the leaders from the area who have so far been appointed to government saying it was a reward to the region for rallying behind Ruto. He also urged the CS to continue delivering on his mandate saying they will offer him the necessary support, especially in the fight against banditry in parts of the country. The DP praised the CS for being loyal, noting he has neither disappointed him nor the president since he was appointed. Gachagua was unveiled as the running mate in May 2022, some two months before the election. This was after several hours of consultations among the UDA's rank and file. In his speech at the Karen residence, Ruto who was then DP and UDA flagbearer said he had settled on Gachagua because he is an astute debater, a principled, resilient and fearless fighter for the right cause. Kindiki was conspicuously missing during the event. Despite losing the slot to Gachagua, Kindiki said he will remain loyal to UDA and support Ruto's presidential campaign. He would later emerge to wish Gachagua well while pledging to support him and party leader Ruto. "I urge those who supported my candidature to support our team so that we have a decisive victory. My candidature was not about me. After prayerful soul searching I have decided to be loyal to UDA and Kenya Kwanza Alliance," he said.