Fried fish is a delicacy enjoyed by most people across the country. This dish is paired with rice, chapati, ugali, and any other starch of choice accompanied by a side of fresh green veggies or tomato and onion salsa. The ultimate step-by-step guide to preparing mouth-watering, delectable, and appetizing fried fish. Let's get into it. Begin by selecting your favorite type of fish. Fish like tilapia, cod, and catfish are all excellent choices for frying, alongside a variety of sea fish such as herring and parrot fish. Rinse the fish under cold water to remove any dirt or debris and pat the fish dry with a paper towel. Prepare a breading mix for your fish. This can be made with flour, cornmeal, salt, pepper, and any other spices you prefer, then lightly dust the fish with the breading. This will enhance the fish's crispiness in the frying process. If you're deep frying, make sure the frying pan is filled with oil halfway, and make sure the oil is heated to 175 degrees celsius to 190 degrees Celsius. Place the fish in the hot oil and let it fry for 3 to 4 minutes on each side. Remember the goal is to have moist and flaky meat on the inside and crispy outside. Remove the fish once it's cooked all through and place it on a paper towel to remove any excess oil. The sauce A fried fish meal is not complete without the sauce. Fry your chopped onions in some oil until they wilt, followed by your tomatoes, ginger, and garlic. Once the tomatoes have simmered down add a pinch of fish masala, salt, chili, paprika, and black pepper, then let the sauce thicken. Fish is served with some sides including veggies such as cooked spinach, kale(sukuma wiki), onion, and tomato salsa(kachumbari) or guacamole( a mixture of chopped onions, tomato, coriander, and crushed avocados) Once you have prepared your starch of choice, plate the meal. Ugali on the side followed by the veggies then lay ''the star of the show'' lastly. Finally, pour the sauce gracefully on the fish, Pinch some ugali accompanied with the fish and veggies, and experience the rich, flavourful bite of this dish that will make you lick the plate clean.