The Star Kenya Website is the number one news site in Kenya, Data Report dubbed Digital 2023- Kenya shows. The report is based on Website Traffic that was monitored between September 1 and November 30, 2022, where The Star recorded the highest traffic during that period. Other notable news websites that made it to the top five are the BBC and Standard Media Group. Google.com and YouTube - search engines- ranked the top. Radio Africa Group head of Convergence William Pike said the data released shows the digital team have identified a winning formula, being the first to break the news. "It was a brilliant job by the digital team to make the Star the most popular news website in Kenya in 2023. This data shows that the digital team have identified a winning formula - being the first to break the news; creating a community around comments; and in-depth analysis," he said. Radio Africa's Head of Content Paul Ilado said The Star believes in digital experiments that have made it remain very attractive to audiences. "We are happy that technology is levelling the media landscape and creating opportunities for us to grow and dominate this space. That is our intention, we are explaining more, we are fast, we are updating the reader almost every minute 24/7," he said. Ilado further said the audience first strategy adopted five months ago has really paid off because it was creating resonance with the audience by focusing on issues that are relevant to them at the moment. "We are creating meaningful relationships, which our readers are craving for. We are creating value for our readers every day. The ranking serves to confirm that we are doing something right," he added. "Our audience wants to see people that are honest and genuine in what they do and are relatable. That is what we are doing at The Star. Join us." Radio Africa Digital Editor Francis Mureithi, on the other hand, said The Star team is very excited about the ranking, attributing the success to a very cohesive digital team that understands the audience. "We are very excited about this. It's all about building a very cohesive digital team, understanding your audience, and serving them what they want, how they need it and when they need it," Francis said. "But there is still room for further growth and dominating the news market not just in Kenya but in the whole of East Africa region." Radio Africa group Deputy Digital Editor Nancy Agutu said her team is thrilled about the news and aims to remain at the top. "I am thrilled that The Star website has emerged top. For us, this is a big achievement. We aim to be the best and we shall only give out the best to our consumers," she said. "The media terrain is a rough one and when you emerge at the top, you feel happy and more powered to even provide the best news to our readers." In 2016, The Star website was the second most visited Kenyan website. The Star rose to sixth position on the global website ranking index . The only Kenyan website ahead of the Star was the Standard whose is in fourth place. Alexa provides general data on all websites internationally. Alexa found that 84.7 percent of Star visitors came from inside Kenya, a higher percentage than the Standard with 80 percent and Nation with 62 percent.