Tension is building in Kerio Valley after two medical officers were shot dead by bandits, with county officials and residents accusing the Interior CS of making empty promises. The killings occurred despite an ongoing security operation by both police and soldiers from the Kenya Defence Forces. Tuesday's killings of the nurse and technician sparked angry reactions from residents. Some demanded security teams deployed in the region be withdrawn if they can’t protect residents from bandits. Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Wesley Rotich said enough was enough, adding that they would take stern measures to help communities deal with bandits. The county chief expressed anger over the latest killings, saying the death toll had risen to five in four days. “We now have five people in the local morgues as a result of banditry," Rotich said. A female nurse at Endo Mission Hospital was killed on her way to work while a lab technician who was taking care of his animals was shot dead in Arror. The two victims are both middle aged. Their colleagues protested against the killings and claimed that the medic may have been targeted to scare others working in the region. "We shall take other forms from Monday if the KDF and police will not act by then," Rotich said. Marakwet West OCPD Bosita Omulongolo confirmed the attack on the lab technician. “We are pursuing the attackers and we will definitely get them so they face the full force of the law,” the police boss said. On Tuesday night, several security vehicles, including those for KDF, were seen speeding in the affected areas with armed officers aboard. Resident Patrick Kibet said several schools in the area may be shut down as increased attacks have caused fear among parents, teachers and learners. Knut officials also threatened to withdraw teachers from schools if the situation is not safe. Rift Valley regional commissioner Abdi Hassan said the KDF-backed security operation was on course and all bandits would be rounded up and brought to book. “We will definitely wipe out banditry. It’s unfortunate that these criminals continue to kill innocent people but we are on the ground and their days are numbered,” Hassan said. The operation is going on in six counties that have been classified as disturbed. They include Elgeyo Marakwet, West Pokot, Turkana, Baringo, Samburu and Laikipia. Interior CS Kithure Kindiki, who has been to the area several times, was expected to make another visit to Kerio Valley. The government has also deployed National Police Reservists to back up the security measures. (Edited by V. Graham)