Azimio coalition leaders are preparing their supporters for the mass action slated for March 20. On Monday, the team led by chief opposition leader Raila Odinga held a Public baraza in Mtwapa. Addressing the public, Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua urged those who are planning to attend the protests to observe peace and protest within the confines of the law. "Nataka tuelewane ya kwamba sisi tutakuwa tukifanya ile katiba imeturuhusu. Wale mtajitokeza tarehe 20, iwe ni hapa Kilifi, iwe ni Nairobi, tafuta kitambaa ya white ya kumaanisha sisi ni watu wa amani," she said. This is loosely translated to: "I want us to agree that we do what the Constitution has permitted us to do. Those who will come out on March 20, be it here in Kilifi or in Nairobi, let us get white kerchiefs to show that we are a peaceful people." Article 37 of the Constitution provides that "every person has the right, peaceably and unarmed, to assemble, to demonstrate, to picket, and to present petitions to public authorities". Karua urged law enforcement officers to let Kenyans go ahead with the protests, adding that they are suffering the same fate as every other Kenyan. "We want our police to stand aside and let Kenyans exercise their freedom and cleanse our country," she said. "A message to the police. There is no relief for the police or the Army officers. Your needs are Kenyans' needs. Let us unite and cleanse our country." Raila and his team launched an initiative dubbed Movement for Defence of Democracy on Thursday after the lapse of a 14-day ultimatum for the Kenya Kwanza government. The initiative will see Raila lead mass protests across the country. "Those 14 days elapsed last midnight with Kenya Kwanza having done absolutely nothing. Today, we make good our promise to Ruto and his illegitimate Kenya Kwanza regime. We unleash the people's power for action and launch the Movement for Defence of Democracy," he said on Thursday. Among the issues cited include the high cost of living, over-taxation, ongoing reconstitution of IEBC, electoral deceit and victimisation of four IEBC commissioners among others.