Azimio leader Raila Odinga has declared mass action against the Kenya Kwanza government following a lapse of a 14-day ultimatum he had given President William Ruto. Raila said they have invoked the provisions of the Constitution to launch a massive peaceful movement of defiance against what he termed as "an illegitimate government". "Take note that on the 20th of March 2023, we have a date with destiny in Nairobi. On that day our supporters throughout the country shall stage a massive procession in Nairobi for a legitimate and inclusive government. Save the date," Raila said. Raila listed 15 reasons to why he has decided to call for mass action against Ruto's government. Raila said that there is a need to protest against the high cost of living claiming it has been occasioned by massive looting of public resources and withdrawal of subsidies to food, fuel and education. He said that the government must lower the cost of living or leave office. Raila added that the protest will also be about over-taxation by the current regime which he said is killing businesses, impoverishing families and damaging opportunities for investments. He said that Ruto must stop over-taxation for Kenya to economically recover. "The importation of Genetically Modified Organisms(GMOs) by Ruto and the company is a scheme to destroy the country’s food basket and to make Kenyans slaves to the American multinationals while enriching his cronies. For this reason, Ruto must go," Raila said. Raila cited the fourth as the attempt by the government to single-handedly reconstitute the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. He said the government's refusal to open servers to affirm the truth is a show of electoral deceit and overthrowing the people’s will. "The victimization of Commissioners Irene Marsit, Juliana Chereira, Justus Nyang’aya and Francis Wanderi for standing with the truth against former IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati and his cabal in an electoral theft and their removal from office through a kangaroo tribunal was actually meant to create a  Ruto IEBC," he said. Raila added that the Supreme court treated the Azimio La Umoja One Kenya presidential petition with judicial thuggery and politically biased remarks. The opposition chief said the accumulation of all powers legislative, executive and Judiciary by Ruto is the perfect definition of tyranny and dictatorship. "Ruto is buying the legislature, influencing the Supreme Court and the sole executive decision maker. This is a dangerous dictator that must not be allowed even a single extra minute in public office," he said. Raila claimed that for the first time, Kenya is facing a two-tribe regime because only two communities are getting appointed to public service. Azimio leader said that the creation of unconstitutional offices in the public service at the expense of Kenyans is a cruel ploy by Ruto to reward allies. Raila said that the president must stop diving the country along religious lines. He called out the government for what he called the targeted sacking and firing of legitimate public appointments. Raila said that even though the cases of the murder of ICC witnesses and the deaths of IEBC employees cannot relieve anyone of responsibility for crimes against humanity. "The grabbing of public land in Ruai, a section of Ngon’g forest, parts of Eldoret Municipality, parts of Lang’ata Primary, Mr Muteshi’s farm and many other public utilities can no longer be tolerated by Kenyans," Raila said Raila said the will protest demanding the exit of DP Rigathi Gachagua from office. He claimed Gachagua was summarily dismissed from office on July 1997 for gross misconduct, desertion of duty and reported mismanagement of relief food for Laikipia District. "This is a clear show of unsuitability and incompetency. No wonder Gachagua has impudently alluded that Kenya is a company with shareholders whose resources are distributed discriminately on the basis of shares," he said. Raila said that he will fight, resist and defy the government until they hear the voices of Kenyans