Quins coach Pau Murunga is plotting an ambush on champions Kabras when the two sides clash in the Kenya Cup semifinal on Saturday in Kakamega. When the two sides met earlier in the season when the sugar millers won 27-12 at the Kakamega showground. However, the tactician believes the scoreline flattered the hosts. “It was tough. We gave them a run for their money this time around and we are going all out to ensure we go all the way to the final,"  added Murunga. Murunga said the key element for Saturday's showdown will be defence. “ Our attack has been firing on all cylinders for the better part of the season. For Saturday's semifinal, we must have the right defensive alignment and pattern, ” added Murunga. The former Kenya Sevens and under-20 coach hinted at playing the game at a high tempo to tire the big Kabras forwards. “I'm hoping to play the game at a quick tempo though our speed at the breakdown will be key if we are to stand any chance of winning the game,” he added. Murunga expects climatic conditions to play a part, especially with rainfall being experienced in Kakamega and its environs. “ Yes, we will have to adapt to the weather and look at playing in the Kabras' territory," he noted. Murunga lauded the players following a strong finish after a slow start to the season. Quins lost their opening three matches but bounced back to win the next eight to finish fourth on the log with 37 points. “A year ago, we were on the verge of relegation to the championship. Equally, many had written us off at the start of the season but the boys have played with heart, passion and determination and I am delighted," he noted. The eight-time Kenya Cup champions benefited immensely from the mid-season transfer period in January, signing experienced forwards —Elkeaans Musonye (Impala) and Ian Njenga (Nondies) Other signings included the likes of Henry Ayah (Homeboyz), Paul Mutsami  (Impala), Clinton Khasai (Strathmore Leos),  David Mwangi (Nakuru RFC) and Kevin Ouma (Mean Machine). Quins are playing in the playoffs for the first time since the 2018-2019 season.