The Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut) and Kenya Primary Schools Head Association (KEPSHA) have lashed out at those calling for Junior Secondary schools (JSS) to be domiciled in secondary schools. While warning that this would create confusion and more crisis, the associations said they fully backed the recommendations by the Presidential Working Party on Education Reforms on the locations of JSS. On Tuesday, Kenya Union of Post Primary Education Teachers (Kuppet) warned of a major crisis in JSS due to lack of teachers and infrastructure noting that the JSS should be hosted in secondary schools instead. But according to Knut secretary general Collins Oyuu, there were public engagement before it was agreed that JSS be domiciled in primary schools. Speaking in Naivasha, he admitted that there were teething problem in JSS like lack of enough teachers and infrastructure, but was quick to add that this was being addressed. “The task force has done a credible job and engaged all stakeholders on the issue of JSS and it was agreed that they be hosted in primary schools,” he said. Without mentioning names, Oyuu lashed out at those calling for the disbandment of the task force and opposed to the location of JSS, accusing them of playing to the gallery and being dishonest. He said all stakeholders were given a chance to air their views on CBC and JSS, adding that those opposed to the proposals had a hidden agenda. “It’s true there are challenges but the government has already employed 30,000 teachers and its mapping out another 10,000 teachers in primary schools to join JSS,” he said. Oyuu challenged the Teachers Service Commission to hasten the process of deploying the teachers to address the current shortage. “The Presidential task force has our full backing and they should continue with the good work and ignore detractors out to derail them,” he said. Similar sentiments were echoed by Kepsha national chairman Johnson Nzioka who said that learning in JSS across the country was going on smoothly. He admitted that there were challenges earlier but this had been addressed as the newly employed teachers continued to report in schools. “We are comfortable with the directive to domicile JSS within primary schools and learning is back to normal after a false start,” he said. Nzioka said the only challenge currently facing the students were lack of enough text books with the crisis set to be resolved by next week. Knut chairman Patrick Karinga said they were working with other stakeholders to address challenges facing the education sector. “We are happy the school learning programme is back to normal after the pandemic and we are looking forward to improving the education sector,” he said.     -Edited by SKanyara