A Mombasa traffic cop who died early this week will be buried next week on Friday. The family on Saturday announced that Police Constable Julius Marwa's body will be moved from the Jocham Hospital morgue on Wednesday next week. It will be transported to Migori county for an overnight stay at his home in Nyambeho village, Kuria East sub-county on Thursday before burial on Friday. In the incident on Monday evening, a motorist dragged and ran over Marwa, who later succumbed to the multiple injuries he sustained. Police said the deceased officer was manning Buxton Junction in Mombasa at about 4.30pm when the incident happened. Together with his colleagues, they had flagged down a salon car for normal traffic inspection. The driver is said to have grabbed the officer's hand when he reached for the ignition key, seemingly to switch off the engine. He then engaged the drive gear and accelerated with the officer hanging from the window and dragged him for almost 200 meters. The officer then fell off the car and rear right wheel of the car ran over him, injuring him on the head. Police said he sustained multiple injuries in other parts of the body and was rushed to Jocham hospital where he was pronounced dead. The driver sped off but was later traced to the basement of a parking lot and arrested. Marwa leaves behind five children including two in secondary and another two in primary school His window, Florence Matinde has however claimed that some powerful people in the country have started interfering with the case and that justice may be subverted. “There are people who have started interfering with the case and I don't have the power to fight them,” she said. Speaking at the Muslims for Human Rights offices near the Mombasa Law Courts, Matinde said she only wants justice for her husband. “No one is defending the police. We ask the human rights defenders to stand with us in this case because we have no other defender,” said Matinde. The deceased firstborn, Sylvia Ghati, said justice for her father will at least serve to pacify them. “What happened was so inhuman. No one should undergo such. It’s so bad,” she said. Marwa’s brother John Rioba complained that they have been kept in the dark about the case that was filed in court by the police. “There is a certain mobilization of people from Nairobi, big powerful people, who want this case not to be straightforward. They want it to go sideways,” he said Rioba said there was a passenger in the vehicle that suspect Osman Jama Abdi was driving. Chacha Nyaigoti,  brother to the late Marwa, said being kept out of the loop in the case raises suspicion in the family. He said the report of the post-mortem conducted on Marwa’s body on Thursday at the Coast Teaching and Referral Hospital indicated that Marwa had internal bleeding. All his ribs were broken and his chest was damaged, according to the post-mortem report. His pelvic bone was crushed and his private parts torn. “The liver was crushed. The spleen was burst. And the intestines had been torn. The brain was intact but there was a lot of internal bleeding. That is what killed Marwa,” said Nyaigoti. In addition, Muhuri rapid response officer Francis Auma said the organization will closely follow the case to its logical conclusion. “Some people have started calling the family seeking to meet with them and negotiate,” he said. Auma said there is some external pressure on the family to have them drop the case. “These same people are trying hard to get to the higher-ups in government to try and get their man go scot-free,” he said He said the people trying to have the matter settled out of court have even tried reaching the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions. Muhuri has called on  IPOA to come on board and called on the Inspector General of Police to ensure this case does not disappear in the corridors of justice.