Garissa Township MP Dekow Mohamed has weighed in on the ongoing debate over the registration of same-sex associations in Kenya saying that the country has stooped too low. “To ask ourselves as Kenyans whether the Supreme court was right or wrong, or to debate about the whole issue is in itself wrong. We are giving the issue undue publicity and as a country, I must say we have stooped too low,” said Dekow. This comes after the Supreme Court gave LGBTQ members the right to form an association of their own as they wish. Three judges Philomena Mwilu, Smokin Wanjala, and Njoki Ndungu ruled in favour of the group while Justices Mohamed Ibrahim and William Ouko had dissenting opinions. The majority of judges had in their decision declared that it was discriminatory for the NGO  coordination board to deny LGBTQ people the opportunity to form associations to champion their rights. According to Dekow, all religions abhor LGBTQ practices. Speaking during the closing ceremony of Madarasatu Al Hidaya Al Islamiya in Boul Argi in Iftin ward, Garissa township Constituency, Dekow said that the time has come for MPs to address any ambiguity in the law. “We are shocked that the highest court of our land can make such declarations. How on earth can a group of three Judges make such a ruling which has a major impact on as a county a country and a society?" “I want to categorically state without any fear of contradiction that we are against such things as Muslims, as a society, as Africans and as Kenyans. The judges are on their own on this one," said Mohamed. On his part Abakaile MCA Hajir Dahiye said that Kenya is a religious country adding that the rights of association are not absolute and can be limited as provided under article 24 of the constitution. Already Vihiga senator Godfrey Osotsi has suggested an amendment to the constitution to take away the powers of the Supreme Court as the final arbiter. According to the proposal, a person dissatisfied with any decision by the apex court would be required to collect at least two million signatures to force the IEBC to subject the decision to a referendum.