National Assembly Minority leader Opiyo Wandayi has condemned pronouncements by a UDA official that obtaining the party membership is a ticket to getting government services. UDA secretary general Cleophas Malala made the statement in Kisumu during the party's membership recruitment drive over the weekend. Malala urged residents to register as party members in large numbers because this would open doors to various opportunities and economic prosperity in the region. He said joining the party would also land them plum jobs in government, including recruitment in the disciplined forces. Malala said those with UDA cards will have an added advantage of joining the KFS, KDF, Kenya Prisons, among others. He said the region had for a long time been sidelined in development projects because of its association with the opposition, adding that he was in the area to "liberate them". But on Sunday, Wandayi said the statement by Malala was unfortunate and it must be condemned in the strongest terms possible. He said those in UDA should detach the political party from state affairs. "It just happens that they happen to be running the government against our wishes and we don't recognise them, but that does not give them a blank cheque to start corrupting our politics with insinuations which belong rightly to the dark one party Kanu era." He said people must say no to such moves as the opposition commences mass action in the next few days. "This is perhaps going to be the reason that mass action must succeed. These fellows seem to be getting drunk with power every other passing day," Wandayi said. "We want to caution the owners that we shall come for them. We want to ignore their mouthpieces but we shall deal with them for sending such people to spew nonsense in public." On the membership recruitment drive by UDA, Wandayi said similar attempts in the past by their competitors never succeeded in changing the minds of residents. "But we wish them well because we are in a multi-party democracy and every party is free to conduct its affairs including recruitment of members wherever they wish," the legislator said.