 Lamu Governor Issa Timamy has ordered the immediate eviction of encroachers on major key water towers in the region. Increased human activity including encroachment has been blamed for the dropping water levels in the county’s major fresh water reservoirs. The three major water towers serving the county are the Shella sand dunes in Lamu Island, those serving Lake Kenyatta in Mpeketoni and those serving Lake Moa in Witu. The three are heavily inhabited and have continued to witness increased human activity which has in turn resulted in low water levels and subsequent water shortages and rationing in the region in recent days. The Shella sand dunes are the only freshwater reservoirs serving the more than 30,000 people around the archipelago. The dunes through to the southern end of the island in Kizingoni to Ras Singue, stretching for 12 kilometres. They cover an approximated 958 hectares and rise to a height of at least 60 metres above sea level. Lake Kenyatta on the other hand is Lamu’s largest and only fresh water lake covering an approximate five square kilometres (1,200 acres) and serving about 80,000 households. Lake Moa in Witu division in Lamu West is the only freshwater lake in the division serving over 10,000 people. Timamy noted with concern that the encroachment and various developments happening on these water towers has resulted in their continued degradation. “The exhaustion of the aquifers in the sand dunes and the speedy drying up of the two lakes is largely because of encroachment and accompanying activities,” Timamy said. He said the eviction means the subsequent demolition of any structures built on the dunes and reservoirs with immediate effect. “The encroachment is to blame for the increased water shortages and related woes here. That stops now,” he said. He also directed that dire measures be taken against individuals who have erected beacons inside the water towers and those who shall be found farming, grazing or sand harvesting on the catchment areas. “We have an enforcement team in place to oversee all these. We are also working with NEMA to see this plan to fruition,” he added.      -Edited by SKanyara