Kenya Union Party (KUP) has declared its intention to leave the Azimio La Umoja One Kenya Alliance. Speaking on Thursday during a meeting, party leader John Lonyangapuo said they could not take part in the direction the opposition outfit had taken. "Our contract with Azimio came to an end when we saw the direction they are taking to cause tension in the country," he said. This is in reference to the anti-government rallies, which Lonyangapuo said might stir chaos in the country. The former West Pokot Governor urged chief opposition leader Raila Odinga to put an end to the anti-government rallies and street demonstrations. According to the terms of an agreement signed BY Azimio member parties on March 2022, no member of the coalition can quit six months before an election and less than three months after an election. Further, if a member party wishes to exit, it should write a 90-day notice to the coalition council. The Third Schedule of the Political Parties Act law provides that a coalition agreement spells "the process and mechanism upon which the coalition agreement may be amended". A coalition agreement also spells out the dispute resolution mechanisms and procedures and the enforcement and sanction for breach of any of the provisions of the agreement. Further, Lonyangapuo said Kenyans were dealing with enough, adding that demonstrations were not the solution. "We ended the elections peacefully. It adds no value, it is meaningless, and it is foolish to demonstrate now," he said. "Let people go to their farms because there is cheap fertilizer and seeds. Keep quiet and wait for five years, it is a short period." He said those in the opposition should accept the election defeat and move on, noting that they had nothing of the enmity between Raila and President William Ruto yet it was spilling to them. He added that the Azimio outfit should leave Ruto be so that he can deliver to Kenyans. "Some will say that I have been bought but I am not cheap. Ruto won and he must be given space to rule. There can only be one President at a time, William Ruto is ready to meet with anyone on the ballot in the next polls," he added.