The Motorcycle Sports Federation of Kenya (MSFK) feted their 2022 achievers in colourful awards ceremony held in Nairobi. Those feted included Malla Ng’ong’a (MX ladies junior class), Dylan Hatanga (MX-50), Lewis Ogonyi (MX-65), Ryan Tiren (MX-85), Neo Wahome (MX-125), Githuku Mungai (MX-1) and David Kahumbu (Vets/Masters Class). The Enduro national champions, who received trophies were Karen Sehmi, Charan Singh and Hussein Taher in the senior classes and Max Cavenagh, Tommy Cavenagh and Amaya Sidi in the junior classes. The Rally Raid (bike) national champion was Arjun Mohindra. MSFK also recognised winners of the special awards category under both sporting and beyond sports. They included Lady rider of the year Ivanca Yongo and meritorious award winner Mutahi Wariithi. Women Bikers Association won the sustainability award while Women in Motorcycling was bestowed to Julie M. Wahome.  Mikhail Berman received the personality of the year award while East African Motor Sports Club was feted club of the year. Karin Bernardi Memorial Trophy (Sporting) was awarded to the Young family and the Angus Young Memorial Trophy (Beyond Sports) went to Sammy Kiumbe of PBAK. The 2022 motorcycling sporting season was a busy year for the MSFK with a total of 15 national series events in motocross (9 events) and enduro (6 events). The three FIM-sanctioned events included Africa Motocross of African Nations (MXoAN), Africa Central and the African Challenge Cup. During the ceremony held at the Nairobi Polo Club, MSFK president Renzo Bernardi said: “The 2022 season saw a good return to active motorcycling in Kenya, both in the sporting arena and in beyond sports activities. This was made possible through the dedication and hard work of our members,” he said. Renzo added: “We saw the highest number of competitors (over 25% increase) in recent history. In addition, the federation arranged for two international trainers Travis Teasdale and Shannon Terreblanche to boost the technical skills and performance capacity of our Enduro and Motocross riders respectively.” Renzo also announced that MSFK is well represented on the continental and global front with the appointment of Julie Wahome as the director of Beyond Sports at FIM Africa. Her mandate revolves around overseeing the women in motorcycling, environment, medical and leisure and touring commissions for Africa. Renzo said just like FIM, MSFK is not just a sports federation but also includes 'Beyond Sports' activities such as medical, leisure & touring, road safety & advocacy, sustainability and women in motorcycling. Beyond sports activities for 2022 included the Concours D’Elegance and the community engagement programs such as Ubuntu Run, Bikers’ Pray Day, leisure rides, road safety, gender parity, mental health awareness and sustainability initiatives hosted by Private Bikers Association of Kenya and Women Bikers Association.