Governors of 14 counties have agreed to expand the North Rift Economic Bloc and change its name to accommodate all the others. Governor Stephen Sang, who is Noreb chairman, confirmed they held an initial meeting in Naivasha recently where they agreed to have one economic bloc for the region because of common interest for the counties in various areas. “We have already agreed on the way forward because we have serious greater converging economic interests  that cut across all the counties in the greater Rift Valley region,” Sang said. Noreb has eight member counties in North Rift region including Uasin Gishu, Nandi, Trans Nzoia, Baringo, West Pokot, Turkana, Elgeyo Marakwet and Samburu. Other counties expected to join the new bloc are Kericho, Bomet, Narok, Kajiado, Nakuru and Laikipia. Sang said the Noreb bill to formally establish an expanded Noreb was already being be discussed for possible passage  by county assemblies in the region but the bill will now be expanded to include the six other counties. “We will also have to agree on a new name for the bloc once we formalise everything because Noreb was for the North Rift counties,”Sang said. Sang said the counties will pursue common economic interests considering that the region has huge agriculture potential, an unexploited  leather industry and major potential in the agro-processing sector and also mining resources. He said the expanded economic bloc will help to provide solution to food challenges in the country because counties in the region are among the high-producing areas for various food and cash crops. To effectively deal with famine and drought, the region will pull together resources and team up with national government on supporting food security measures. He said governors in the North Rift will push long-term solutions to the banditry problem in the region. including economic transformation to create jobs for youth. Sang reiterated they fully support the ongoing security operation in the region but it should also be used to revive stalled economic projects in affected countries. Sang says job opportunities have to be created for youth who will be forced to abandon banditry. “As counties in the region we all want to be party to solutions to banditry because none can be safe if, for example, West Pokot or Elgeyo Marakwet, is bleeding because of banditry,”Sang said. (Edited by V. Graham)