Mo Salah’s agent Ramy Abas has dismissed reports that the Egyptian will consider a move if Liverpool do not achieve Champions League qualification for next season. Salah, thanks to his agent, achieved a record deal at Anfield only last season. The reports are coming from Spain but I can tell you that there is no accuracy in the rumours after making a thorough check. Salah has scored 20 goals this season and is contracted to stay until 2025 when he will be 32 years old. Abas says the Spanish press claims are "Nonsense” so relax Reds' supporters. Liverpool coach Jurgen Klopp is delighted that Mo is back on form. His goal against Wolves moved him to just one goal behind Kop legend Robbie Fowler in the Reds' all-time list. Klopp warned this week’s visitors Manchester United that Salah is back to his best and has scored three goals and made three assists in his last seven games. Ten Hag unites Old Trafford players What is the secret behind Manchester United’s run of success and lofty position high up the table?  If you needed proof of the positive effect that coach Erik Ten Hag has achieved at Old Trafford, Bruno Fernandes explains it all. He said: “Old Trafford is a fortress once more because this place is amazing. The atmosphere created by the fans for us is unbelievable. They always stand behind us and always push us to do better. We know how they appreciate the effort we put in and we know this season how the belief is between players, staff, fans and in fact everyone who loves United. It is about carrying on the momentum because we know everyone coming here is now thinking in a different way to last season. We are so strong.” Ten Hag has succeeded in bringing all the players together and the atmosphere in the dressing room and on the training pitch is so positive and that was never achieved by Louis van Gaal, Ralf Rangnick, Jose Mourinho, Ole Gunner Solskjaer or David Moyes. United’s unbeaten home run of 18 games underlines Ten Hag’s achievement. Skipp the real deal Antonio Conte has been at home in Italy recuperating from an operation to remove his gall bladder. From there, the coach has been watching videos of Spurs' matches, analysing positional moves and talking constantly to his staff on an hourly basis. He also oversees training linked by video phone to his deputy Cristian Stellini and he coaches each live match. From Italy, he sent a FaceTime message congratulating midfielder Oliver Skipp. Playing a perfect game against Chelsea, he got the better of both Ruben Loftus-Cheek and Enzo Fernandez and was rewarded with scoring a screamer of a goal. Midfield first choice Rodrigo Bentancur is out for months with injury and Skipp has not only stepped up to replace him but has done the job excellently. Following his stay in Italy, Conte has  bizarrely been nominated as February Manager of the Month following Tottenham’s three wins from four matches. Such has been the success of his remote coaching. The joke at Tottenham Hotspur Stadium is that perhaps Antonio should sit in the stands from now on and coach the team by phone and let Stellini run up and down in the technical area. Time is up for Potter protest fans After Chelsea’s poor display against Tottenham and losing 2-0, thousands of fans signed a “Sack Potter” petition which at the time of writing this column had reached nearly 40,000 signatures! Owner Todd Boehly repeated that the manager still has his support but I have been given information from inside the club that the next two games will probably decide Potter’s fate and he could even go before that. Saturday’s game at home to Leeds is good for Potter and the Blues then travel to Leicester and the under pressure coach believes both games can be won. Chelsea are 10th on the table, nearer the relegation zone than the top four. During the defeat to Spurs, I was sitting near the directors and could see Boehly holding his head in his hands when his team went 2-0 down. The clock is ticking rapidly for Potter but 40,000 fans have lost patience and want their voices heard. Coincidentally, that is the same number of the crowd capacity at Stamford Bridge. At the training ground, it is easy to see how Potter is challenged trying to command a large first team squad of 31 players. Every one of them wants to play and moral is wearing thin with several left on the bench or out of the matchday squad altogether. Spending £323million doesn’t bring instant success and Boehly is finding this out the hard way. Potter is now in danger of losing part of his dressing room. After being left out of the starting squad, Trevor Chalobah, Marc Cucurella, Mateo Kovacic, Carney Chukwuemeka and David Datro were visibly upset. However, I was told that Kovacic’s absence was due to injury. If Boehly does decide to call it a day and sack Potter, the coach and his team would be entitled to pick up a staggering £50million which would be a football world record! Odegaard hands over his captain’s armband I was truly impressed when Arsenal captain Martin Odegaard revealed why he handed his captain’s armband over to Oleksandr Zinchenko against Leicester. Apparently Odegaard discussed the move with coach Mikel Arteta and they made the decision together. Odegaard had already spoken with several players and staff and he allowed Ukrainian Zinchenko to lead the team out on the anniversary of his country’s invasion by Russia. Odegaard said: “I spoke to some people in the club and then I went to Mikel and suggested it to him. It’s been a very difficult and very emotional year for Oleksandr. It was a good thing to do to show our support. When he’s on the pitch, he always gives 100 per cent and he doesn’t let the situation in his country affect him. However, his family and all his friends are there and it is very difficult for him.” Arteta said: “I am very pleased because this move came from the players.” Arsenal chase Ivan Fresneda Arsenal have sent scouts to monitor the progress of Spanish side Real Valladolid right-back Ivan Fresneda. Borussia Dortmund, Juventus and Newcastle are also interested in the 18-year-old. The defender has said he will sit down with his representatives at the end of this season and explore his options. He has a release clause in his contract of £26.5million. However, Valladolid have said he can leave but they are hoping to spark a bidding war which could be costly for Arsenal. The Gunners departed from their recruitment policy of bringing in young players when they signed 28-year-old Leandro Trossard and 31 year-old Jorginho but both have turned out to be inspired buys and have excelled in their positions since moving to the Emirates Stadium. Mikel Arteta has two good right backs already in Ben White and Takehiro Tomiyasu but Spaniard Fresneda is considered to be so good that he would be another of the building blocks for Arsenal’s future. Moyes moves Paqueta to work with Rice and Soucek Hammers coach David Moyes watched the World Cup and saw how Brazil used his club’s £50million signing Lucas Paqueta. Moyes' plan in bringing in Paqueta was to install him as a No 10, playing ahead of Declan Rice and Tomas Soucek. It didn’t work out as well as Moyes hoped. Having been impressed by Paqueta’s performances in the World Cup Moyes moved him back to form a midfield three with Rice and Soucek. Beating Nottingham Forest 4-0 last weekend underlined that Moyes’ idea had worked because the three worked well together. Rice, a natural attacking midfield player, actually played deeper than usual which allowed both Paqueta and Soucek to get more forward and Moyes has been working on this all week in training. Once a starting regular, full back Aaron Cresswell has been off form for some time and made some crucial errors last weekend after being recalled from the bench. Fortunately for Moyes, he can see Kurt Zouma returning to fitness and he should be available very soon. Kante’s contract and return are both positive N’golo Kante is nearing agreement over his new contract with Chelsea. However, Liverpool are closely monitoring the situation and will seize the opportunity to move for the French World Cup winner. The 31-year-old has played only two games this season after damaging his hamstring at the beginning of the campaign. I have seen him taking part in light training and the word from Stamford Bridge is that he could be ready for a return. Thiago Silva has signed a new contract but no deal has yet been reached with Mason Mount, a situation being monitored by Paris Saint-Germain . De Gea proud as he breaks Schmeichel record David de Gea spoke with pride on Monday as he acknowledged his clean sheet record for Manchester United. The Spaniard overtook legend Peter Schmeichel on the all-time leaderboard with 181 clean sheets. He said: “I feel rather emotional, very happy and proud of the team as well. I am so happy for the fans after a great day winning the Carabao Cup. It is the perfect way to break the record.”