Kenya Lionesses will play either Brazil or Poland in build-up matches before the Africa Cup tournament scheduled for May in Madagascar. Head coach Dennis Mwanja said the two countries had expressed interest to play Kenya and he hopes the encounter will come before their departure to the Indian Ocean Island. The build-up matches will be played at home and will act as a curtain raiser to the Barthes Cup in April. "It will be good to play one of those teams to give us good preparation before we go to the Africa Cup and test our strategies against teams that are ranked higher than us,” said Mwanja The Lionesses have finished the first phase of pre-season training and will resume in a fortnight as they step up preparations for the Africa event “ The first phase of training was looking at the basics including ball handling, attack and defence patterns, the lineout and the scrum,"  observed Mwanja. The KCB assistant coach expressed optimism that by the time the team leaves in May, they will be in peak condition for the championship. “We have under two months to go which I believe is adequate time for the event and for us to be in the best possible shape,” noted Mwanja. Mwanja has called up players from Northern Suburbs, Impala and Mwamba to train with the national team and bring in competition to the squad. "The players we have called up to the squad are just to add competition and ensure players are on their toes in the course of training,” he said. Mwanja's charges face champions South Africa, Madagascar and Cameroon, and having played in last year's Africa Cup B will aid their push for the championship. "Beating Uganda and Zambia last year was big a big boost. The teams we are facing at the moment are the best in the continent and we must be well prepared” He added that the ultimate test will be to qualify for the Rugby World Cup in the women's category. “My target is to play in the Rugby World Cup in 2025. We have the building blocks in place and going forward, we need exposure and investment into the women's game so that we can compare favourably to South Africa."