Kisumu county tourism department is conducting auditions across the seven sub-counties ahead of the Fish Fiesta mega event. The auditions come even as the county implements Kisumu my pride campaign to market the entire county as a tourism hub. The aim of the campaigns is to appreciate everything in the county to ensure they bring out the best of Kisumu to the world. The signature event that will be running yearly Fish Fiesta which will be held from the 6th to the 9th of April, 2023 at Hippo Point Public Beach in Kisumu. The auditions are ongoing with Muhoroni and Nyakach sub-counties having already held their activities. The remaining sub-county includes Nyando, Seme, Kisumu West, Kisumu East and Kisumu Central. The audition comprises activities such as Boat Race, Mr. and Miss Tourism, Mr Flex, Mr Strong, Tug of War, and Luo Traditional Wrestling. According to Tourism Director Thomas Ouko, during such events, they take advantage of partnerships with different bodies to educate and create awareness of anything unique from the area. Like in Nyakach, the Kenya Wildlife Officers were on the ground to create awareness and educate locals on human-wildlife conflicts. Senior Sergeant Evans Nyaoro noted that they partner with the county government so that during such occasions they take advantage and educate locals more. “We partner with the county in that when they are doing such tourism promotions. We also educate people on how o coexist with wild animals." This comes even as there have been rampant cases of wild animal attacks along the lake. “We also sensitize them to know the of the dangers in the water." Kisumu has established itself as a leading tourist destination with key attractions in-game, marine and recreational outlets. To drive the 'Kisumu My Pride' agenda, the department will also be running a photo competition in the county. The department came up with the strategy because we believe that Kisumu has got a lot of good stories that remain untapped and the journey is all about bringing the best of Kisumu to the world.