Jogging is a form of exercise that involves running at a slow and steady pace, usually for an extended period of time. This exercise is popular among adults, youth, and children. Jogging can be done on a treadmill, track, or any outdoor surface, just make sure that the surface is suitable for the exercise in order to prevent injuries. Here are some amazing benefits of jogging Improves cardiovascular health According to Bronson healthcare.com, running is an excellent form of aerobic exercise, which strengthens the heart and lungs and improves overall cardiovascular health. When you run, your heart rate increases, which helps to improve circulation, increase oxygen delivery to your muscles and improve overall cardiovascular function. Running also reduces inflammation and reduces the risk of cardiovascular diseases. Weight management Healthline.com says running is an effective way to burn calories and lose weight, especially when combined with a healthy diet. Running has been proven to burn calories and harmful belly fat long even after a 15-hour workout ). Running puts stress on your bones and muscles, which can lead to increased bone density and muscle strength. When you exercise, the muscles that are working to keep you moving are constantly pulling on your bones. It is this stress that has a direct effect on your bone density increase, which is known as Wolfe’s Law. Improves mental health Running has been shown to reduce stress, anxiety, and depression, and can lead to a greater sense of well-being. According to Cigna healthcare.com, running can control stress and boost the body's ability to deal with existing mental tension. Exercise also increases concentrations of norepinephrine, a chemical that helps moderate the brain's response to stress.'' Regular exercise, including running, can improve the quality of your sleep and help you fall asleep faster.'' Hopkins medicine.com says elevation in core body temperature signals the body clock that it’s time to be awake. After about 30 to 90 minutes, the core body temperature starts to fall. The decline helps to facilitate sleepiness. In conclusion, running is a fantastic form of exercise that provides numerous physical and mental health benefits. Whether you're looking to improve your cardiovascular health, strengthen your muscles, manage your weight, or reduce stress, running can help you achieve your goals.