Health Cabinet Secretary Susan Nakhumicha has been challenged to make public the leasing contract for the controversial medical equipment to counties. The contract, County Public Accounts Committee (CPAC) chair Moses Kajwang says, will help clear the air on the scheme which was termed as a 'scam'. "In the same boldness that the roads CS attempted to release the contracts for SGR, we are urging the cabinet secretary for health to consider releasing the MOU that was signed in the lease of this equipment," said Kajwang. He said efforts by Parliament to have it have been fruitless "because they refused to bring it". Kajwang made the remarks during a committee meeting on Monday. Bomet Governor Hillary Barchok appeared to answer audit queries raised by Auditor General Nancy Gathungu in her 2019-20 report. Nandi senator Samson Cherargei told the committee that the CS is ready to appear if the matter becomes a serious concern to the counties, especially on audit matters. The county is said to have paid Sh94 million for the lease of the medical kits. The lease agreement detailing the scope of the programme including equipment types, costs, specifications and quantities was, however, not provided for audit review. "The equipment was not included in the county's assets records and consequently, accounting for their use and custody was inadequate," the report states in part. In his response, Barchok claimed they budgeted for the lease of equipment but did not receive the amount through the county revenue fund account since it is checked off from the exchequer. "The memorandum of understanding and ownership documents have not been handed over to the county to be taken in charge in the asset register," he said. The Sh38 billion leasing deal was unveiled in 2015 by retired President Uhuru Kenyatta. The contract was later reviewed and the cost increased to Sh63 billion. At least 104 select counties and national government hospitals. It was aimed at saving the state from the huge costs incurred on the purchase and maintenance of medical equipment. Some five international firms had won the tender-Dutch company-Philips, Bellco SGL (Italy), Esteem (India) and Mindray Biomedical (China) and General Electric (US). Among the specialised equipment the, companies were to provide included those to be used in ICU, radiology, theatre and renal treatment. There have, however, been cases of some equipment lying idle due to a lack of specialised staff to operate it. Counties paid up to Sh200 million annually for the equipment. A report by the Institute of Economic Affairs on the 'Leasing of Medical Equipment Project in Kenya" Value for Money Assessment’ indicates that Kenyans are not getting value for money in the ambitious project.