The county government of Kakamega is collaborating with health partners across the country in a move aimed at enabling and redesigning maternal and newborn service delivery. On Thursday, members of the committee on Health and Sanitation Services held a collaborative meeting with Jacaranda Health Solutions aimed at sensitizing the legislators on the necessary areas of attention by the assembly. The approach dubbed ‘Tutunze’ is a cross-sectoral strategy spearheaded by the county government of Kakamega that tests how to improve maternal and newborn survival by shifting where and when mothers access pertinent health services. The county chief officer for Medical Services George Mukodo said the redesigning focuses on improving the distribution of financing, staff equipment and medical supplies to ensure mothers receive high-quality services including delivering their babies in well-equipped and staffed facilities. He revealed that an improvement phase of the program is currently underway in Lumakanda, Malava and Butere Sub-Counties including skilled healthcare provisions and renovations to the infrastructure and equipment within the facilities. “The County is committed to ensuring that health facilities are improved towards raising mothers’ demand for a quality health system in the county. The objective is to ensure best practices through the provision of comprehensive care for maternal and newborns in the county,” Mukodo. The chairperson of the health committee Bernard Omboko stressed the need for proper financing and the provision of adequate skilled staff to make the program a success. “To project sustainability, I want to urge our partners to improve on the planning and budget-making processes to ensure enough resources to help achieve significant outcomes for the mothers and babies,” said Omboko. Jacaranda Health Solutions Head of Programs Victor Bwire outlined the gaps and challenges encountered across a mother’s journey through the health system. They include poor availability and coordination of affordable emergency transport options and limited maternity bed capacity. “We also have the issue of critical hospital infrastructure and shortages of skilled medical officers and obstetricians capable of delivering timely, advanced and dignified care to mothers,” said Bwire. Jacaranda Health is a maternal health non-profit based in Kenya which helps end preventable maternal and newborn deaths by deploying low-cost, sustainable solutions that improve the quality of care in government health systems. The organization has partnered with governments to deploy affordable and scalable solutions through government hospitals, where the majority of underserved mothers and babies receive care. The Kakamega program is aimed at reducing County’s maternal and neonatal mortality from 316/100,000 and 19/1000 live births respectively to progressively meet SDG targets of 70/100000 and 12/1000 in 5 years. If successful, the ambition is to see the program adopted by both stakeholders and county leadership - as an evidence-based approach to resolving pain points across the health system.