Over 100 households hard hit by drought in Marsabit county have received food donations from Sagante Jaldesa ward MCA Amos Wako. The beneficiaries were quarry workers who hustle for their families some kilometres away from their villages. They received maize flour, cooking oil, sugar, salt and rice to cushion them from hunger. The food rations would last roughly four days depending on the number of family members. Speaking to journalists after distributing food donations, Wako asked well-wishers and organizations to chip in and assist the families facing starvation revealing that many households had lost thousands of livestock. He noted that the drought is currently being witnessed in over 33 counties as a result of the effect of climate change. He passionately asked business people, leaders, organizations and well-wishers to channel their support through M-changa, a platform he initiated to rise money to assist drought victims. He appealed to the government to scale up the distribution of relief food saying thousands of residents are languishing in hunger. The first time MCA said his office was working closely with well-wishers to reach out to more vulnerable households. "Many vulnerable people in the ward have been hit hard by hunger. We requested both the government and Non-governmental organisations to distribute relief food," he said He reiterated the need for upscaling the drilling of boreholes as well as water trucking to far-fetched areas. He called the government to start a school feeding program that will enable learners to remain in school. Qabale Gonjobe, a resident of Manyatta Jillo, said women, children and the elderly are the most affected by drought. "We are very grateful to our MCA for bringing us these food donations as the situation has become worse. I urged other leaders and organizations to chip in to save lives," said Qabale Ms Qabale break down in tears as she explained that her family has not had any food to eat in two days. Abdub Wako, a quarry worker thanked Sagante Jaldesa MCA for supporting them with food donations and asked other leaders to also chip in their assistance. He considered himself lucky for remaining with three goats but continues to pray that his goats will not die. "Most of our livestock have dried and those remaining are weak and can not make it to the market. Now we are in the hands of God. We hardly sell our items as no buyers are available to buy," said Abdub Marsabit county Governor Mohamud Ali when he chaired the county steering group meeting said the county government was planning a permanent solution to the perennial hunger in the region. Marsabit county government commenced the second phase of relief food distribution targeting 20,000 households last month to cushion locals facing starvation. The governor assured residents of the third relief distribution in the month of march. The number of people in need of humanitarian support across the county continues to rise owing to failed rains in five consecutive seasons that left thousands of families without a source of livelihood. Although most parts of the country are suffering from drought, Marsabit county is one of the most affected by famine. The drought has killed most of the livestock which are lifelines for most of the residents and this has left them desperate and helpless.