Students at Otok Mixed Secondary School in Karachuonyo constituency on Thursday caned and chased away some parents for allegedly attacking their school principal. The students turned angry and beat a group of parents who raided and stormed the school to eject their newly posted principal Jactone Ogaga. They used wooden rods and stones to assault the parents whom they accused of causing chaos and interfering with their studies. It is reported that the parents did not want Ogaga to teach and undertake the management of the school. It is not clear why the parents did not want the new principal. Ogaga was to officially start undertaking his duties after being introduced into the school on Thursday. The drama began when some parents entered the gate and started shouting as they hurled insults at Ogaga. Speaking after the incident, Ogaga said students came from their classrooms when some parents started hurling insults, throwing stones indiscriminately. During the fracas, the deputy principal got injured after being hit with a stone. “Some angry students picked wooden rods, beat and whipped them away. The parents were chased to about 2km from the school,” Ogaga said. The deputy principal is still undergoing medication at a nearby health facility. Students who spoke to journalists complained that they have parents who do not want the school to progress. They argued that the parents use the parents association to dictate the kind of principal and deputy they want. Some students said they beat and chased the parents out of the school because they were causing chaos. “There are some parents who don’t want to see this school progress. They always want good teachers to get transferred but for us, we want to get taught and excel in academics,” a student said. They accused the parents of forcefully gaining entry into the school. Rachuonyo North sub-county police commander Lydia Parteiyie said they have arrested the school parents association chairman Joshua Ochieng and other two parents. Ochieng is linked to the chaos which caused injuries to the deputy principal. “We’re interrogating the suspects to establish the reasons why they wanted to eject the principal,” Parteiye said. Ochieng and his two colleagues are being detained at Kendu Bay police station.