Nairobi Gymkhana A and Ruaraka A have qualified for the semi-finals of the Nairobi Provincial Cricket Association (NPCA) Super Division Knockout Championship without touching a bat. Newly crowned T20 League Champions Swamibapa will play hosts Shree Cutchi Leva Patel Samaj (SCLPS A) while Sikh Union 'A' will square it out with visitors Sir Ali Muslim Club (SAMC A) in Sunday’s scheduled Super Division quarter-finals. The winner between Swamibapa A and Cutchi Leva ‘A' will meet Gymkhana 'A' while the Sir Ali-Sikh Union victor will play Ruaraka 'A' in the semis planned for March 19. NPCA secretary Narendra Patel confirmed that Kanbis Sports Club A, Stray Lions 'A' and Obuya Academy 'A' will not be playing in the 50 Overs knockouts because of player availability. Narendra also explained that the knockout draw was done on the basis of positions in the 50 Overs League. Division 1 has attracted a total of 10 teams with four playing in Sunday’s two pre-quarters and six in the quarters scheduled for the March 19 weekend. Hosts Nairobi Gymkhana B and Sikh Union B have been drawn in one of the Division 1 pre-quarter matches. Swamibapa B and Ruaraka B will be at Ruaraka for the other Division 1 pre-quarter tie. The winner between Gymkhana—Sikh Union will play SCLPS B in the quarter-final on March 19. The winner between Swamibapa B and Ruaraka B will play Kanbis B in the quarters also on March 19. In other Division 1 quarters, Wolves A will play Stray Lions B while  Ngara SC A will meet Kongonis A. The finals of the Division 1 category will be played on April 2. Division 2 also guarantees some action-packed matches with the boys seeking to outclass each other. “Standards have been set and only the sky’s the limit in Division 2 which is the future of the sport. Like in Division 1, Division 2 will feature 10 teams and two pre-quarter matches on Sunday. The semis and finals of Division 2 will be played on March 26 and April 2  respectively,” Narendra expounded. Narendra also added that the ladies’ team which featured in the T20 League’s Division 2 will be unavailable for the knockouts.  OTHER FIXTURES Division 2 Pre quarters (March 12) Stray Leopards B vs Mario Tours Nakuru (Eastleigh) SCLPS vs Stray Cheetah (Sir Ali)  Division 2 quarter finals (March 19) Meru CC vs Wolves B Swamibapa Development vs Stray Leopards C Obuya Academy B vs winner of SCLPS C - Stray Cheetah Ngara SC B vs winner of Stray Leopards B -Mario Tours Nakuru