Two Kajiado CECs are expected to face the county assembly to defend themselves against impeachment bids. The two—Education CEC Jeremiah Ncharo and his Public Service counterpart Alais Kisota are accused of incompetence, gross misconduct, maladministration and abuse of office. They are expected to appear before MCAs anytime this week. The ward representatives have already approved the motions for the impeachment of the county executive committee members. The motions were moved by Jonathan Koroine (Mosiro) and Joshua Mbariri (Ngong), respectively. Speaker Justus Ngossor told the Star on Sunday that the matter was deliberated on by the county assembly and the house will form a special committee to look into the allegations. “The process has just begun and I have directed the special committee to look into the allegations against the two CECs. The committee shall be formed on Tuesday,” Ngossor said. The committee is expected to afford the executives an opportunity to be heard, defend themselves and thereafter determine whether the allegations are substantiated or not. During the submissions in the assembly of the House, the leader of the majority John Loisa (Dalalekutuk) noted that the CECM for education had seriously violated Article 232 of the Constitution of Kenya 2010. "The CECM, Ncharo failed in adhering to the tenets of prescribed values and principles of a state officer by failing to account for Sh75 million that had been set for bursaries with the education department only disbursing Sh37 million in all the 25 wards as only Sh1.5 million were being awarded to each ward," Loisa said. Loisa challenged the education department on the modalities that they use in seeking overdraft facilities without the approval of the county assembly. However, the Kitengela MCA Paul Matuya rebutted by submitting that the mandate of seeking overdraft facilities is purely pegged on the Department of Finance and Economics. "As for the longest time that I have served as an MCA and a member of the budget committee the mandate to seek overdraft facility is bestowed on the finance department under the chief officer, therefore, the county assembly does not have the mandate over the seeking of overdrafts," Matuiya said. Entonet/Lenkisim ward MCA Paul Metui affirmed that the department of education has become a pilferage and a conduit of corruption and unfairness at the behest of the future of the pupils. "The corruption muscle in the department of education is a battle that, as elected leaders, we need to battle and address as it has and it continues to hamper the future of many children across the county due to improper and the high-handedness of the CEC Ncharo,” Metui said. In his contribution, according to the Hansard report, Ewuaso - Enkidong’i MCA Joseph Toris added that the allegation of issuance of bursaries to children outside the designated wards is false and hearsay. “Mr Speaker our wards are so diverse and cosmopolitan, therefore, it is upon the members who allege that the names are not from specific wards to table the names and the House to authenticate their validity,"  Toris said. On the motion seeking the removal of the CECM for Public Service Kisota, insisted that the CEC had failed in his conduct of duty as well as going to the contrary of the oath that he swore to adhere to. Nominated MCA Phoebe Makungu said that the removal of CECM Public Service is a purely political witch-hunt. "It is unfortunate that this House has chosen to focus on the issues that shall continue to put a wedge between the executive and the assembly yet we have other teething problems that the society requires our actions,” Makungu said. The two motions were affirmed by 23 votes against 16 opposing and 1 abstaining.