Lari MP Mburu Kahangara has rubbished Azimio la Umoja leader Raila Odinga's plan to hold demonstrates to demand that IEBC servers be opened. Raila last week said he call for mass action to push government to bring down the cost of living, restore subsidies on fuel and essential commodities such as food and strengthen democracy. However, Kahangara said Raila was using his supporters to draw the attention that the election has some mishaps. He said it was time Raila accepts that he lost both the election and the petition he lodged at the Supreme Court. Kahangara said President William Ruto was elected in a transparent manner and took the oath of office openly after Raila lost the petition. The legislator said Raila was planning to use his supporters to seek sympathy from Ruto and see if he will be called for a handshake. The MP said Raila was greedy since he benefits alone, leaving his supporters. "Ruto was elected, sworn-in after election petition was filed by those who did not believe he had won the election" the MP said. "Ruto has placed strategies of leading this country to improve the economy, bring down the cost of living, ensure people get better and affordable services, children are in school, agriculture has improved and each and every Kenyan rights are respected" he added. The legislator warned the Azimio leader that he was playing with a government which was legally in place and which has supporters. He asked Raila to look for other ways of achieving his goals saying the style of holding demonstrations was chaotic and had been overtaken by time. Kahangara spoke at Bathi Secondary School in Kijabe Ward in Lari subcounty where he gave the school a Sh1,109,000 million for bursary. He said the school had so many needy students and noted that the money was for 399 needy learners. The school principal Gordon Njogu asked the government to increase bursary allocation in many schools since it was supporting parents to pay the feeding programme. Njogu told the MP to assist them with funds to complete a storey block of classrooms and boys' toilets.