Azimio Leader Raila Odinga has asked for peace and tolerance during Saturday's burial of Luo Council of Elder Chairman Ker Wilis Opiyo Otondi. Ker Otindo will be laid to rest at his home in Nyahera on Saturday. Raila on Friday visited Ker's home accompanied by Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong’o, his deputy Mathew Owili, Kisumu West MP Rosa Buyu, elders, and Church leaders amongst other local leaders. "I came here today early because am not a visitor but we want to plan how to send Mzee very well," he said. While welcoming all across for the burial of Ker, the ODM leader noted that various dignitaries are expected to grace the funeral across the region and even outside the country. "We are going to have visitors from across here tomorrow let's all show decency and respect, and show them how we Luos pay our last rest respect to an elder in the society." He added that the Church will have its time from morning hours till around 11 am, after which other activities will take place. He said there is a book by culturalist Paul Mboya titled "Luo Kitgi gi Timbegi" a handbook of Luo cultures and tradition where there is a chapter that elaborately explains how an Elder should be sent off and the kinds of rights to be performed when an elder dies. "I have read the book and the chapter very well and told our elders what is expected of them to ensure that Ker Otondi is laid to rest as per the Luo cultural traditions." Raila said some of the rites that will be performed include 'Tero Buru'. Tero Buru happens during the ceremony where elders and selected youths take a herd of cattle to the homestead of the deceased, where the animals are driven crazily around the homestead. Those involved in the ritual usually wear traditional war regalia which normally includes Susan hats and hides as other carry twigs. During this time mourners run around the homestead of the deceased with some holding the horns of the already charged animals and running with them as they chant war songs After a while, the herd of cattle is usually driven towards the nearest water body mostly river banks where the evil spirits are believed to be destined to. Later they come back to the village. On Thursday when the body of Ker Otondi was removed from the morgue in the morning hours, they had to ensure the body reaches his home in Nyahera at sunset. This according to one of the elders James Ayaga was according to the Luo traditions. Ayaga said Mzee is not allowed to enter his home when the sin is still up. Ker Otondi's body was taken to Jomo Kenyatta sports complex for viewing where the widow Lilian Akoth eulogised him as a truthful, trustworthy and joyful man. She said Mzee was a man with a clear mandate and always stood by his stand. "There is nothing that could change his stance on anything that he believed in and something right," she said adding that the Luo nation have not only lost a leader but the entire region and beyond. She noted that Ker Otondi was a man that loved the peace and ensured that this was also experienced and witnessed by any in all the places he visited. "We have lost a great man. And a great husband, "she said. From Jaramogi sports Complex, Ker Otondi was taken to various places for viewing including Pap Okore Kohondo then later to Nyahera before finally arriving at his home