After winning the Eldoret City Marathon last year, Milano Marathon set for April 2  in Milan, Italy will be the next stop for Emily Chebet. Chebet said she feels she is ready for Milano Marathon after recovering from an injury she picked last year. “I thank God that we have finally been paid after a very long time. For now, I am preparing to compete in Milan and I look forward to good results," said Chebet. Last year, Chebet won the 4th edition of the Eldoret City Marathon after timing 2:29.58 ahead of Charlene Toroitich (2:30.13) and Lilian Jelagat (2:30.23) in the second and third places respectively. “Eldoret City Marathon is very competitive and if you can do well here, you can compete on the global stage. I hope to return and defend my title here in Eldoret," said Chebet. Two-time men’s winner Victor Kipchirchir Rotich said he is happy the long wait is now over. “I am happy that we have been paid because we have waited for a long time. We knew the money will come but we did not know when.  I am equally not sure if I will compete in this year's Eldoret race because I will compete in Siemens Marathon next month,” he said. He advised those hoping to compete in the Eldoret City race to prepare well because it is not child's play. “Eldoret City Marathon is no joke and those hoping to win the title must p[repare well. The course is hard because of the many corners,” he said. Race director, Moses Tanui, said they will start preparations for the next edition immediately after paying last year's winners. “I want to apologize to the athletes for taking long to pay but as I have explained,  this was due to technical issues. "I am happy we have paid them and this is behind us. We will now start organizing the 2023 edition. As a retired athlete, I could not do anything before settling what we owe them," he said. Tanui said they hope to announce their plans for this year's edition next week and at the same time set up the Local Organising Committee. Kipchirchir won the title in 2:13.10 ahead of Michael Mutai (2:13.23) and Josphat Kipkoech Bett (2:13.36). The prize money was Kshs 18.5 million with Chebet and Kipchirchir taking home Sh. 3.5 million each.