Kenya Ports Authority teams will hit the ground running when they resume their Kenya National Basketball League action this weekend. Kenya Basketball Federation competitions secretary, Joseph Amoko,  confirmed the porters will be back in action and was already lining up back-to-back games for the teams. KPA men's and women's teams have not played any of their second-leg fixtures as they had some internal issues to sort out. "The team has written to us confirming that they are now ready to resume their league activities," said Amoko. He added: "Now that they are back, we will give them two matches every weekend starting March 18 so that they catch up with the rest." "KPA men are placed seventh on the log with 25 points from 13 games. They have lost one game to Africa Nazarene University's Wolfpacks. Their women counterparts on the other hand remain the only side yet to face defeat. They have amassed a maximum of 26 points from 14 matches. Amoko also confirmed that KPA women's team have acquired the services of Nigerian guard Ofunaya Okoro who is already in Mombasa. The player featured for the dockers in the Africa women's Club Championship in Maputo, Mozambique in December and was named among the top five best. "We cleared only three players to move in the second leg in January. And the Nigerian," revealed Amoko, " is one of them." The other two are Hilda Ndegwa who also joined the team from Equity Bank and Medina Okot who left KPA for Zetech University Sparks. Meanwhile, Strathmore University Blades increased the University of Nairobi Terrorists' relegation worries with a close. victory. The last gasp-free shot by Brandon Ouche ensured Blades bagged the two points in this tough game that would have gone either way. "It was a very tough game. Terror gave us all sorts of problems." Opined Blades coach Tony Ochieng. "Tactically,  our substitutes just made it good when it mattered most for us. They brought exciting energy." Strathmore University are third in the 12-team league with 32 points from 20 matches. They have lost eight games.