Plan International Kenya is calling on the Government to invest more in water and sanitation services in drought-stricken areas. Plan, together with Concern International Kenya, said there needs to be more advocacy for improved access to sanitation services in those regions. According to Plan and Concern's recent report on the Gender Needs Analysis of people in Kwale and Marsabit, there is a severe need for menstrual hygiene services in those regions. "More specific attention to toilets and bathing facilities will help to avert cases of sexual violence against women and girls and reduce public health-related conditions including diarrhoea," they said. They also called for investment in the urgent provision of water trucking services while supporting the repair, rehabilitation, extension and maintenance of water structures and systems. "This includes all communities, including in schools where the school-feeding programme has been disrupted due to lack of water," they said. They said that actors are encouraged to collaborate with the local government in intensifying the construction of water harvesting facilities. They can community dams, drill and maintain boreholes, and promote the development of community-based livelihood assets around the water establishments and nutrition gardens. "Comprehensive menstrual hygiene awareness creation and provision of non-food items including hygiene kits -reusable, disposable pads, women panties and soap to adolescent girls and young women must also be a priority," they said. They said that strengthening health service providers' systems to offer quality medical care and sexual reproductive health services including counselling, psychosocial support services, referral systems, and monitoring and follow-ups will go a long way. "There is a need for multi-sectoral response in consultation with affected communities in addressing water shortages, access to food, life-saving nutrition, protection and menstrual hygiene needs of girls," they added. They proposed the provision of multi-purpose cash transfers where appropriate as it presents better multi-sectoral outcomes.