Cabinet Secretary for ICT & Digital Economy Eliud Owalo has asked Nyanza residents to cooperate with the national government for the effective implementation of development projects. Owalo said there are a number of development projects the Kenya Kwanza administration has earmarked to undertake for the benefit of the Nyanza people. He argued that support would provide a conducive environment for President William Ruto-led government to fully execute the projects. The CS said the country is past the 2022 elections and it is high time political leaders in the Nyanza region put aside the rhetoric and concentrate on developing the electorate. From next week, according to Owalo, a number of cabinet secretaries will launch projects in Nyanza. The launch of the projects is a sign that President Ruto and his administration do not want to leave Nyanza behind in development. Some of the projects are road construction, rural electrification programmes, and projects dealing in fishing, housing, and gold mining among others. “President Ruto has repeatedly said he will not discriminate against any community when undertaking development. It’s important for Nyanza people to cooperate with the government for efficient implementation of the projects,” Owalo said. Speaking on Friday during the burial of Monica Atieno, a sister to former Lake Basin Development Authority Chairman Odoyo Owidi, Owalo told residents to focus on working with Ruto because he is globally recognized as Kenya’s president. He told residents to be wary of politicians who do not support the development cause spearheaded by the Kenya Kwanza regime. According to Owalo, President Ruto has opened his doors to work with all political leaders in the Nyanza region and it is important for them to take advantage of the opportunity to cooperate with the government. Nyanza is an ODM leader Raila Odinga's stronghold since he draws much political support. Raila was the main challenger of President Ruto in the last presidential election. Nyanza has six counties; Migori, Kisii, Homa Bay, Kisumu, Siaya and Nyamira. “The government of President Ruto is ready to transform the lives of Nyanza residents regardless of political affiliations,” Owalo said. The CS was accompanied by Owidi, Nuclear Regulatory Authority chairman Omondi Anyanga, former Kisumu Senator Fred Outa and former Rangwe MP Martin Ogindo. Anyanga argued that the electoral agency (IEBC) had concluded the 2022 general election and that people should now focus on development. He said Ruto had been declared the winner, approved by the Supreme Court and therefore there is a vacuum in the presidency seat. He told Nyanza leaders to avoid leaders who discourage them from cooperating with the government. “We have turned our backs on presidential elections. It’s known worldwide that Ruto is the President of Kenya,” Anyanga said. ODM leadership had threatened to reprimand eight MPs who visited President Ruto in State House in Nairobi to seek ‘development projects’. Raila and Azimio-One Kenya leadership has said they don’t recognize Ruto's presidency. They have threatened to begin mass action against the regime over the high cost of living. On his part, Owidi asked Nyanza residents to avoid people who deceive them that there were electoral malpractices in the 2022 presidential elections. He argued that any complaint about the last presidential election is retrogressive politics. “IEBC had declared the winner of the presidential election. Let nobody cheat Nyanza residents that there was any election rigging,” Owidi said. Outa urged Nyanza residents to take a paradigm shift in politics by joining President Ruto’s UDA party. He said they starting UDA membership recruitment in Kisumu County on Saturday this weekend. “I am going to meet over 5000 delegates in Kisumu to start registering UDA members. Let us join UDA,” Outa said. Ogindo said joining UDA will enable them to have a share in the government. He argued that the Nyanza people have played opposition politics for a long without benefit. “We have educated our children who need jobs in government. Let’s support the government so that we access these opportunities,” he said.