Defence CS Aden Duale has told off former Treasury CS Ukur Yatani over his claims that the approval of Sh15 billion by the Controller of Budgets was done within the law. Duale said no request for approval of such funds was made to the 12th Parliament when he was Majority Leader as claimed by Yatani. "During my tenure as Majority Leader in the National Assembly, no such callous and unscrupulous deals were transacted," the Defence CS said. In a statement on Wednesday, Yatani absolved himself from blame saying the Sh15 billion was regularly approved in line with the Constitution. He said Article 223 of the Supreme law empowers Treasury CS, under certain circumstances, to approve funds not appropriated by Parliament provided the parliamentary approval is given within two months. "For the Controller of Budget to suggest that I pressured her to authorise some payments without parliamentary approval is therefore calculated malice," Yatani said, warning that he is considering taking legal action against CoB, Margaret Nyakang'o. "If there is any doubt in the mind of the public regarding the said expenditure, I invite the constitutional office of the Auditor General to scrutinise this expenditure. And I am confident that she will vindicate my actions," Yatani said. But in a series of statements on his Twitter handle, Duale told him to prepare to carry his own cross over the alleged irregular transactions. He said Yatani and those in whose interest he acted must account for every single cent misappropriated on dubious deals during his tenure. "CS Yatani can run but cannot hide. You can try to shift and pass the buck, but watertight evidence adduced by the CoB incriminates you," Duale said. While appearing before Parliamentary Public Petitions Committee on Tuesday, Nyakang'o said she knew it was irregular but she gave in to Yatani's pressure and approved the Sh15 billion. Nyakang'o tabled what she claimed are text conversations between her and the former Treasury CS persuading her to expedite the transaction. "His Excellency might even call you if we don't deal with this by 4 pm," she quoted Yatani as saying. "Are you saying we have 26 minutes to complete the process?" Nyakang'o replied. "You need to devise how to deal with it. I am sorry but try.” In his statement on Wednesday, Yatani said the Sh15 billion which Nyakang'o insinuated was stolen was actually utilised on maize and fuel subsidies and the construction of Lamu-Garissa and Garissa-Isiolo roads. Yatani further said the funds were used for the construction of a referral hospital for the Kenya Defence Forces which President William Ruto opened recently. "If indeed the Sh15 billion was stolen, how did the president open this hospital?" he posed. But Duale said no such projects were commissioned by the head of State. "Stop lying! Never has the President and Commander in Chief Dr William Ruto opened any modern referral facility for the Kenya Defense Forces. You were used and abused by the Handshake brothers and now you bear economic and criminal culpability individually." Duale claimed that the purge that was instigated against Ruto's allies in the Jubilee government was meant to pave way for the unprocedural expenditure of public funds. He said more shocking revelations on economic pilferage in the previous regime will be brought forth and shake the nation to its very foundations. "Kenyans will know why they were desperate to interfere with the results of the General Election," Duale said.