AFC Leopards head coach, Patrick Aussems, expressed optimism about their title chances this season after his charges stumbled on a slim 1-0 win over Wazito at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Thursday. An own goal by Wazito was all the 13-time champions needed to reignite their hopes of ending a 20-year title drought. Despite his forwards firing blanks in the entire encounter, Aussems lauded his team for exhibiting a brilliant performance. "We need to keep the momentum going and I'm glad we have done our best to display some decent level of consistency thus far," Aussems said. "I believe we have every reason to be positive about the chances we have of clinching the title this season. "Only six points separate us from the league leaders and we must do our best to crack a top-three position in the coming days. "That will place us in a strategic position to contest successfully for our 14th top-flight title," he noted. The Belgian gaffer reckons they need to garnish their cabinet with silverware this season to reward their loyal fanbase. "Our fans have been brilliant this season and the only way we can reward them is by delivering the title after a long time." Aussems, nonetheless, reminded his charges to be wary of the cutthroat competition in the league. "As I said at the beginning of the season, no fixture will be a walk in the park because all the teams in this competition are here on merit. It, therefore, behooves us to push ourselves above and beyond for a dream finish. "Wazito head coach, Charles Odera, said the outcome is a clear indication that the side has improved in quality. "Had it not been for the own goal, we were well on our way to picking an away point from today's match," he said. Odera, who joined the side just recently from second-tier side APS Bomet, said he was unfazed despite presiding over his third straight loss since he took over the reins at the Muhoroni-based club. "The second leg of the season has only begun and we still have some 16 matches on the card. I believe we can play catch-up pretty well if we organize ourselves accordingly." Leopards were the most guilty of squandering a flurry of chances produced during the action-packed match. The outcome fired Ingwe to the fifth spot on the log with 32 points, six adrift of leader Gor Mahia. Wazito's woes worsened after teat, which left them dangling dangerously in the relegation zone, second from the bottom with just 10 points from 17 games.