Frustrated Azimio Protester on Friday munched cow dung and juice in Kisumu during the Mass demos in support of their party leader Raila Odinga. The unidentified middle-aged man with a white cap on sat with his legs crossed along the state Lodge Road as he took his food. He picked the cow dung from his plate, bite a piece of it as he returned others to his plate and drank something that appeared to be juice. This incident attracted the attention of some of the demonstrators who came close to watch what was going on with the young man. When asked why he was taking that, the only thing that came from his mouth was 'Njaa Njaa Njaa' as he touched his stomach using one hand. "Hakuna chakula, There is no food," he said. Another protester, a lady on a motorbike carrying a piece of White Ugali said there was no Unga, adding that even vegetables were scarce. Other locals carried sufurias while some people wore them as caps as they wailed about the high cost of living. Others carried plates and spoons as an indication that they had nothing to eat because their plates were empty. During the demos, the locals chanted anti-Ruto slogans..saying they were dying of hunger even as the cost of living continue to go up. However, the protest continued peacefully even as locals demanded for teargas from the officers saying they had missed it in Kisumu. The officers, however, were not provokable as they remained firm and blocked the roads leading to the Stage Lodge. Raila has listed 15 reasons to why he has decided to call for mass action against Ruto's government. Raila said that there is a need to protest against the high cost of living claiming it has been occasioned by massive looting of public resources and withdrawal of subsidies to food, fuel and education. He said that the government must lower the cost of living or leave office. Raila added that the protest will also be about over-taxation by the current regime which he said is killing businesses, impoverishing families and damaging opportunities for investments. He said that Ruto must stop over-taxation for Kenya to economically recover. "The importation of Genetically Modified Organisms(GMOs) by Ruto and the company is a scheme to destroy the country’s food basket and to make Kenyans slaves to the American multinationals while enriching his cronies. For this reason, Ruto must go," Raila said.