Judgment on a case challenging the victory of Homa Bay Governor Gladys Wanga will be issued by Justice Roselyn Aburili on Tuesday afternoon. Former Nairobi governor Evans Kidero challenged Wanga's victory after the electoral agency (IEBC) declared her the winner in the August 9 general election. Justice Aburili had instructed lawyers of both parties that the judgment would be done virtually on March 7 at 3 pm. Homa Bay County Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) manager Fredrick Apopa announced Wanga the winner with 244,559 votes. Kidero emerged second garnering 154,182 votes. The former governor had petitioned the court to nullify Wanga’s victory on grounds that there were irregularities in the process. He alleged that he was denied victory after Apopa and Wanga colluded to rig him out. Kidero filed a case arguing that they could have won the election if the process was credible. In his petition, he argued that the Homa Bay governorship election was marred with massive chaos, voter bribery, swapping of results and voter manipulation. This, he said, was made possible when his competitor allegedly sponsored violence to influence the outcome of the election. “They colluded and subverted the will of the people. There were glaring irregularities in the exercise and that’s why we want justice served to the residents,” Kidero said. Kidero's legal team is led by Julie Soweto, Kevin Oriri, Samuel Aduda and Okweh Achiando. Governor Wanga has, however, dismissed the allegations saying she won fairly. S She insisted that Kidero and his team are driven by male chauvinism agenda and asked the judge to uphold her election. “They don’t believe that as a woman I could be voted and declared the winner for governor seat. The allegations leveled against my victory are untrue,” Wanga said. Her defence team is led by Charles Kanjama, Fredrick Orego, Jackson Awele and Andrew Muma. The parties had delivered copies of their final submissions after the vote recount exercise.