The Chairman of Luo Council of Elder Ker Willis Otondi is set to be buried at his home in Nyahera on Saturday. Ker Otondi passed away on February 17th 2023 at the age of 98. However, before the burial, there will be elaborate three days celebrations of the life of Ker Otondi. According to the Funeral Committee Chairman Kisumu county assembly speaker Elisha Oraro, Ker's body will be removed from Agah Khan Morgue on Thursday morning around 9 am and taken straight to Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Sports Complex, formerly the Jomo Kenyatta sports ground. At the Sports Center, Oraro said prayers will be held there and viewing done up to around 2 pm before they begin their journey to Ker’s home in Nyahera for a night vigil. He said on Friday, Cultural ceremonies will be carried out the whole day based on the Luo culture and activities. “We expect and have received confirmation from varus elders across different regions within the county and outside the country who will be gracing the burial of Ker." Oraro noted that the Padhola will be making their way to the lakeside city and the Nabongo will also be sending their representatives including other Luos from Tanzania and different parts of the country. “So on Friday, the Elders will have their time, for the Luo customs, cultural practices and activities, we know Otondi was an Elder and there are things that will be done during this period." On Saturday, Oraro noted that the body will be taken to Ogada secondary school from morning to evening as Ker will be laid to rest in accordance with the Luos customs and culture. He added that the day will also be left for Family members, various dignitaries and the church to eulogies Ker before being interred. ODM Leader Raila Odinga, Governors, Mps among various leaders across the country are expected at the burial. He said they are doing all this to ensure that all the stakeholders are accommodated. Oraro also appealed to friends and mourned who will grace the occasion to minimize politics saying this will be strictly a peaceful sendoff of Ker. According to the family spokesperson William Oweke, they are all set to remove the body of Mzee. Oweke said it was nice that they shared the life of Ker with many not only the Luo community or people from this region but across different areas. “Mzee has left us as a family very strong and we have all come together to ensure that he gets a befitting burial according to this status." He also appreciates the support of various leaders, families and friends for coming through to ensure everything is in place for the burial.