Court will on Friday rule whether police officer Ahmed Rashid will be charged with murder for the killing of two boys in Eastleigh, 2017. The police sergeant, who is based at Pangani police station, got indicted by police oversight body Ipoa late last year in the murder of two men in March 2017. He is accused of shooting dead Jamal Mohamed and Mohamed Dahir in Eastleigh on March 31, 2017. CAS interviews The Public Service Commission will enter its third day of interviewing candidates for the Chief Administrative Secretary positions. Evans Kidero, former PSs Coleta Suda, and Julius Jwan are among those to be interviewed. Ruto to preside over pass-out parade of NYS graduates The National Youth Service (NYS) will on Friday hold its pass-out parade ceremony at the Gilgil Training Academy in Nakuru. President William Ruto is expected to preside over the event that will see a new cluster of graduands earn their certifications after undergoing a six-month initial training. Wajir elections Wajir Governor Mohammed Abdullahi to know his election fate as High Court delivers judgment in a petition challenging his 2022 victory. Governor Abdullahi’s victory during the August 9 polls was challenged by his rival Hassan Mohammed who claims the election was not free and fair. Raila meets ODM county bosses Opposition chief Raila Odinga will on Friday meet a key organ of the ODM party that brings together all the 47 county chairpersons. Raila, who is also the ODM party leader, will hold talks with the ODM county chairpersons caucus as he lays the ground for a major revamp of the party. Parliament petition Civil society organisations petition the National Assembly to amend the Kenya Information and Communications Act to align with current and emerging realities of a connected digital world (cyber security, content creation, cyberbullying, copyrights issues) Ruto Kisii visit President William Ruto is set to visit Kissi county this month. Education CS Ezekiel  Machogu asks Kisii to give President Ruto an arousing welcome when he visits this month.