The National Fund for the Disabled of Kenya (NFDK) has unveiled Sh 2.7 million in dormitories for boys at the Kibos School for the Blind in Kisumu. This move was aimed at creating a conducive environment for the learners to study. According to the NFDK Board of Trustees Member Prof. Julia Ojiambo, this was also part of the fund’s initiative to support infrastructural development at institutions catering for learners with disabilities. Ojiambo said the school was in dire need of a facelift noting that the dormitory which is self-contained was the beginning of the long journey to modernize the institution. The school was established in 1963. She added that the facility shall be equipped with beds and beddings and this will be done through a partnership with other organizations. While accompanied by other board of trustees members Senator David Musila and  Cecilia Mbaka,  Ojiambo said the goal of the program was to construct accessible facilities to enable learners with disabilities to realize their right to education and this “Such facilities guarantee increased enrollment, retention and enhanced learning experiences for learners with disabilities,” she said. Ojiambo further noted that the fund will continue to create linkages to address other challenges facing the institution. “This program was rolled out in 2009 and has so far benefited 24 institutions across the country, with the flagship projects undertaken including dormitories, classrooms and dining halls." Speaking during the unveiling ceremony at the school, Ojiambo said this has been possible through big grants from NFDK with eight new projects set to be launched this month. “This programme has been made possible through assistance from the National Government and NFDK’s rental income which enables implementation of 24 flagship projects annually countrywide,” she added Kibos School for the Blind Headteacher Caroline Templer lauded NFDK for the initiative saying it will go a long way in supporting the learners. She noted that the boarding facilities at the school were dilapidated calling on well-wishers to partner with the school to put up a similar dormitory for the girl. They have 175 learners at the school.