Simat men's team lived up to the billing by beating neighbours Newlands to emerge winners of the Simat/Kapseret Ward Governor's Cup Volleyball Tournament. In an electrifying match played at Lemook Primary School on Sunday evening, Simat oozed class, opening the score sheet with a 25-20 victory and 25-21 for the second. Newlands recollected themselves and turned the tables, winning the third set 25-23. Simat dug into their reserves and made away with the trophy after sealing a victory of 25-22 in the fourth set. Chepyakwai men and women teams emerged winners of Ngeria Ward competition, after chaffing off a big field to qualify for the county finals set for mid-April. The Ngeria Ward finals saw Chepyakwai humiliate Kipsamo men 3-1 in a four-set final bout played at Kipsamoo Centre. The winners took the first and second sets (25-19, 25-23) before their rivals won the third 25-20 and lost the last 24-25. Captained by young star Valentine Cheptabok, Chepyakwai ladies beat Chelabal 2-1 of (25-11, 25-27, and 25-19). Both teams had a fair share of aged women. In Kipkenyo Ward, Riverside outclassed Kipkaren 3-0 in a men's final match played at Kipkenyo Primary School grounds. Kipkaren Women beat their neighbours, Pioneer, winning all straight sets for a score of 3-0. "This is a good initiative for youth empowerment. Employments are becoming fewer and therefore, it is better to turn your talent into employment," Assembly Speaker, Philip Muigei, said. County Executive for Sports, Lucy Ng'endo said the youth need to take advantage of government programs aimed at talent development. "Our two levels of government are running various programs that are majorly aimed at growing talent and making sports an employment for our youth. You need to take this as an advantage." Malkia Strikers head coach, Paul Bittok said: "The Governor's Cup has given us an opportunity to identify promising talents and perhaps nurture them to join the different volleyball leagues." Winners of the ward competition get Sh20,000, a volleyball, uniform and a trophy. Sh15,000 and a ball is awarded to the second position, with the third getting Sh10,000 and a ball. The fourth position goes back home with a ball.