Former Kenya Rugby Union vice-chairman Sasha Mutai has thrown his hat into the ring for the federation's chairman's position in the March 24 elections. The quantity surveyor has outlined five key pillars in his manifesto via Facebook. Mutai said that once elected, he will focus on government relations, Corporate partnerships, rugby development, rugby clubs, and national teams. Mutai said the sport has gone through a turbulent period in the last four years and noted that it is time for a change. “ We can all see the landscape in rugby in the last four years has been difficult and it's time for everyone to come together and take the game where it should be.  "We need to make the game vibrant, resourceful and exciting for players, clubs and fans alike,” added Mutai. This will be his third attempt for Mutai at the top seat after failed bids in 2015 and 2019.  He hopes the affiliates will make the right decision this time around. “We hoped the clubs will make the right decision this time around and improve the sport in the country. The potential is vast and we can go very far," added Mutai.  Mutai will face Joe Onsando in a two-horse race for the position. The elections come in the wake of the Sports Dispute Tribunal (SDT) nullifying elections held on September 6 after they failed to meet the threshold and had massive irregularities. The SDT ruled that the election of Joshua Aroni as the treasurer, Ian Mugambi as secretary general and Oscar Mango as a director was null and void. SDT reprimanded Sports Registrar Rose Wasike for interfering with the elections, adding that the elections fell short of the notice. To that effect, the union formed an Independent Electoral Board led by former KRU secretary general Aggrey Chabeda. Other members are Sadik Makii ( Kenya Cup representative),  Auka Gacheo (KRU Championship clubs representative) and Faith Basiye (Women’s rugby representative). Also on the board is sports lawyer Sarah Ochwada, who comes in as KRU board representative. In a notice to their affiliates on February 20, acting secretary general Ray Olendo disclosed that besides the positions of vice chairman, treasurer and secretary general, the positions of chairman and four directors will be up for election.