The Ministry of Tourism, Wildlife and  Heritage will provide residents living near the Amboseli National Park with water and relief food until the current drought is contained. Cabinet Secretary for Tourism, Wildlife and Heritage Peninah Malonza on Friday said that the current drought situation in the country occasioned by climate change has adversely affected both human beings and wildlife. “If one wishes to see the results of the current drought which is caused by climate change today, you just need to tour Amboseli National Park, one of the hardest hit areas," she said. Despite the harsh conditions, the CS said the state will continue to provide for the wildlife with water, fodder and mineral salts to lessen the effects of the drought. Malonza was speaking during the 2nd edition of the Magical Kenya Tembo Naming Festival held at the Amboseli National Park. The CS called on donor organizations and private sector players including non-governmental organization to give a helping hand towards mitigation of impact of drought amongst communities living around the parks as well as wildlife. Malonza lauded organizations and partners whose efforts, she noted, are critical in not just protecting elephants but also supporting communities living alongside wildlife to coexist peacefully with wildlife through education and awareness creation programs. During the event, the CS also flagged off stacks of hay that will be distributed to wildlife in the park. She also launched the National Elephant Action Plan 2023/2033 which will guide elephant conservation efforts in Kenya while safeguarding their welfare under scientific management. First launched in 2021, the Tembo Naming festival was established as an innovative sustainable mechanism to champion elephant conservation in Kenya. The festival offers individuals and organizations an opportunity to fund conservation efforts by donating money to the Kenya Wildlife Service through naming an elephant. In its inaugural year, 25 organizations and individuals contributed towards the conservation of elephants through the program where a total of SH16.5 million was collected. This year, 17 new adopters have come on board with the Tourism Ministry projecting that the funds raised would help mitigate the challenges faced by wildlife during the current drought