Kamwosor Junior Athletics Camp head coach Ruth Bundotich is in a celebratory mood after three of her athletes delivered medals in ecent international outings. Agnes Jebet won a 10km bronze medal at the World Cross Country Championships in Bathurst, Australia last month while Diana Cherotich and Marion Jepngetich won gold and silver medals respectively at the East Africa Athletics Under 20 Championships held over the weekend in Dar es Salam, Tanzania. In Bathurst, Jebet won bronze in 34:00 behind champion Emily Chebet (33:48) and silver medallist, Ethiopian Tsige Gebreselama (30:56). Jepchumba said Jebet has the power to progress following her recent graduation into the senior ranks. “This is her first medal since graduating into the senior ranks. For her to win that bronze medal calls for celebrations,” said Jepchumba. The coach, who was in Bathurst to watch her athlete shine, added that Jebet has the potential to represent the country at the 2023 World Athletics Championships in Budapest, Hungary. “I was in Bathurst and I felt happy when I saw my athlete win a medal at the global stage,” she said. Cherotich, who sat for her Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education last year at the Ilula Secondary School in Uasin Gishu County won the 5,000m regional under 20 title as compatriot Jepngetich settled for second. Cherotich had finished second at the national trials at the Nyayo Stadium. “She is still young but ready to learn from her seniors," said Jepchumba. "She has been consistent in her training and making it to Tanzania was not by miracle but hard work.” The two, Cherotich and Jepngetich, missed out on an opportunity to represent the country in Bathurst due to visa hitches. “I had hoped to see the two athletes in Bathurst but that did not happen. However, they have done it in the regional competition meaning they are good potentials for the future, whom we must guard selfishly,” she said. Jepngetich, the youngest of the trio, is a Form Four student at Kimwogo Secondary School in Elgeyo Marakwet County.