Record champions, Gor Mahia, solidified their position atop the Kenyan Premier League standings after defeating Bidco United 1-0 at Nyayo Stadium on Sunday. Benson Omalla struck in the 17th minute to bring his season total to 19 goals, creating a six-goal lead over Kenya Police's talisman, Elvis Rupia, his closest rival for the Golden Boot award. The win propelled K'Ogalo to 41 points, five more than second-placed KCB. Bidco is now 12 with 23 points. Jonathan McKinstry, the head coach of Gor Mahia, praised his team for turning things around after losing 1-0 to Mathare United a fortnight ago and drawing two-all with Nzoia Sugar the previous weekend. "The outcome exceeded our highest hopes. It's wonderful that we understand how crucial it is to get our title contention back on track, and we did well by playing with urgency "said McKinstry. "We can already feel the pressure from our fans to deliver the trophy this season and we are prepared to go the distance to realize this dream. "Anthony Akhulia, McKinstry's opposite number, claimed that only their failure to take advantage of their opportunities prevented a better outcome from the match. "If we had taken advantage of the obvious opportunities we missed on either side of the halftime break, we would have won the game," Akhulia said. "We have learned from our defeat and we want to address a few issues before our next game," he continued. Champions, Tusker, squandered a wonderful opportunity to cut the gap on Gor after playing out a one-all draw with Talanta at Ruaraka grounds. The outcome propelled them to third place on the log with 35 points as Talanta maintained the 15th spot with 18 points. A rejuvenated Mathare United side sustained their giant-killing run to defeat 13-time Kenyan champions AFC Leopards 1-0 at Moi Stadium in Kasarani. Nzoia Sugar's quest for a maiden top-flight title suffered a dent following their 1-0 defeat to coastal lads Bandari at Mbaraki Stadium in Mombasa. New acquisition, Joe Waithira, announced his arrival at the dockers in style with a well-struck effort in the 68th minute. The Bungoma-based millers slumped to the fifth position on the log with 34 points, as a result of the loss as Bandari scaled to the eighth spot with 27 points. Kariobangi Sharks stunned KCB 2-1 at Moi Stadium, Kasarani as Posta Rangers pulled off another surprise of the day to pip Ulinzi Stars 1-0 at Thika Stadium. ReplyReply allForward