Champions National Cereals and Produce Board take on Black Mamba in a top of the table Kenya Handball Federation league match at Nyayo National Stadium on Sunday. This encounter, expected to be a fiercely contested duel, will see millers move closer to retaining their crown. A loss will see them wait for the last day. Can Mamba spit venom and stop NCPB’s 16 match unbeaten run? Bryan Mathews' league leaders have piled on 32 points as compared to their opponents who are fourth on 28. A victory will certainly see them retain their crown. “We are prepared for any team. Morale is high in our camp and my boys are ready to maintain the unbeaten run. Mamba is a quality opposition hence the need to take one game at a time. I believe it will be a good game,” Mathews said. Mamba's hope of an upset will rely on the form of Paul Ondara and Victor Lwale. Coach Abdalla Otieno believes they are the only side who can stop NCPB. “My boys have trained well and are ready for the battle. We are coming for nothing other than a win. We are the only team that can beat them and we will do it,” Otieno observed. Kenyatta University, gunning for a top six slot take on Desert Scorpion who suffered a 34-32 defeat at the hands of bottom club Young City. Second-placed Ulinzi still smarting from their shock 26-22 defeat at the hands of General Service Unit (GSU), will hope to find their form when they take on Kenyatta University. In the other game, Nairobi City Council (NCC) will have a date with Spartan. Eight placed Amazon will have two balanced matches on the card as they play against Rising Star and then take on NCC. In the women’s match up, Ulinzi Sharks who are fighting hard to secure the second spot behind unbeaten Nairobi Water Queens, confront KU. An all varsity duel pits Meldone Akoth’s Daystar University against Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology (JKUAT). On Sunday, NCC return for a match against Buccaneers as Desert Scorpion play Thika in their second encounter. Amazon face the crunch when they play women champions Nairobi Water Queens, who are still unbeaten from 17 matches and then NCPB who are placed third. 