Gaspo's head coach James Ombeng has warned his side against complacency days after edging Vihiga Queens from the top of the table. Ombeng believes they have what it takes to clinch the Kenya Women's Premier League trophy. The club claimed the top spot with 24 points after beating Vihiga 2-0 last weekend at Mumias Complex, thanks to goals from Anne Arusi and Emily Andayi. The coach stated that his players must win every game in order to maintain their position. “In the first leg, we dropped many points ostensibly due to draws and lost some matches as well because we had not prepared well,” he added. Vihiga Queens’ loss at their home ground was a big setback in the KWPL race and will have to work hard to reclaim the position that is currently held by Gaspo. Vihiga Queens' captain Merceline Wayodi said it’s time to learn on how to fight from behind and excel. On the other hand, the dreams of Thika Queens to ascend to the helm of the league were cut short by Zetech Sparks after being stunned 1-0 at Gems Cambridge. The lone goal that buried Thika was scored by Puren Alukwe. Thika Queens' head coach Fred Majani blamed his side for not utilizing their chances on the ground. “My side failed to use their chances on the ground to end the game and they were punished,” Majani said. “Injuries incurred by Juliet Andibo and Wendy Atieno also contributed to our loss,” he added. However, the Zetech coach Benard Kitilo congratulated his side for a job well done. Elsewhere, Nakuru City Queens humiliated  Bunyore Starlets 2-0 at ASK Melon Mulindi and Elizabeth Mteshi scored for the winners. According to the league standing, Gaspo are now at the top with 24 points— two points more than second-placed Vihiga Queens. Thika Queens are third with 21 points, Nakuru City Queens FC are fourth with 20 points and Ulinzi starlets are fifth with 19 points. Others follow in the order—Bunyore Starlets (16 points), Wadadia FC (16), Trans Nzoia Falcons ( 16), Zetech Sparks (13), Kisumu All-Stars (13),   Kangemi Ladies (13) and Kayole Starlets (9). 