Football Kenya Federation (FKF) have pledged to revitalize the local football landscape after a prolonged period of uncertainty. According to FKF chief executive officer Barry Otieno, the federation has put effective measures in place to inject greater energy into Kenyan football after seasons of stagnation caused by a succession of sad incidents. "We have faced tremendous hardships as a country in recent years as a result of a variety of factors, including the Covid-19 pandemic and the country's suspension from the world stage. All of these contributed to the stagnation of our football," Otieno stated. "Fortunately, we are working hard to restore normalcy to the local football scene. Part of our strategy is to bring on a large number of commercial partners, and the good news is that there are now people eager to invest in Kenyan football," he went on to say. Otieno stated that it was disheartening to watch certain top-flight clubs struggle with deep-seated financial restraints. He predicted that such difficulties will soon be a thing of the past, observing that commercial partners were now eager to invest in the sport. Otieno made the remarks even as the local governing body named Mozzart Bet as its official Domestic Cup partner in a three-year Sh60 million arrangement. Speaking at a colorful unveiling ceremony held in a Nairobi hotel on Tuesday, Otieno thanked the firm for investing in the competition, saying their noble gesture attested to the undying love they had for Kenyan football. "We admire your belief in football, especially at a time when the sport lacked commercial partners. This collaboration is the first step toward recovering the football brand following the release of the Fifa suspension," Otieno stated. FKF said the knockout competition which is traditionally used to select the country's representatives in the Caf Confederations Cup has, subsequently, been renamed the Mozzart Bet Cup. During the launch, the firm's country manager Sasha Kreneta said the sponsorship deal demonstrated their ongoing commitment to supporting sports in the country. "We are delighted to be collaborating with the FKF to promote football in Kenya and create opportunities for young players to demonstrate their abilities," Kreneta stated. "We believe that sports can bring people together, create growth opportunities, and transform lives. Our partnership with the FKF is an excellent opportunity for us to make a meaningful impact on the lives of young footballers and the communities they represent," Kreneta added. The three-year contract will see the gaming company spend Sh20 million every year beginning with this year's edition, which enters the round of 32 this weekend. It will cover the costs of the teams' travel, venue, and lodging. The eventual winner will walk away with Sh2 million, while the first and second runners-up will receive Sh1 million and Sh750,000, respectively. The fourth-place finisher will receive Sh500,000. Gor Mahia, who are the reigning Domestic Cup champions, will hope to garnish their cabinet with an 18th title during this cal