Nyaburi Integrated School in Karachuonyo constituency is on the brink of getting closed due to an acute food shortage that has hit the institution. The situation has interfered with learning in the school as some boarding children are unable to concentrate on their studies due to hunger. It is reported that the shortage of food has also interfered with feeding programmes in the school as learners nowadays have one meal per day instead of three meals. Problems started way back last year when donors who were financially supporting the school withdrew their support. The school is currently having a population of more than 450 children whereby at least 80 learners have different disabilities like physical, and mental as some are deaf. A section of teachers and workers who talked to journalists in the school threatened to go on strike because they have not been paid their salaries for more than seven months. They said they have a rough time handling some children who have to eat first before they are given drugs. Adherence is a problem for children who depend on drugs. “We’re in a very precarious situation with children who have to be given drugs after eating. Some of such learners are weak and their conditions have worsened due to starvation,” a teacher said. On Monday, the school head teacher Lazarus Nyandiga admitted the problems saying they lack money to buy food for the children. Nyandiga said since they stopped receiving donor funding, the school has become unstable. Those who were supplying the school with food have since stopped due to unpaid dues. The national government has also not remitted capitation fees to the school since September last year. Nyandiga said they nowadays depend on food donations from well-wishers from the villager. “Some give us sukuma wiki while others give us maize and beans to feed children. Currently, the school is financially unstable and unable to pay workers,” Nyandiga said. The head teacher appealed for more well-wishers to come to their aid. “We’re writing proposals to get sponsors,” he added.