Kenyan women entrepreneurs have been urged to leverage technology to promote the growth of their businesses. Techminds CEO and Safaricom women’s mentorship network chair Sarah Kabira said that women need to learn and use technology, as well as take advantage of money set aside for tech development. Speaking at the UON African Women Studies Center Women Economic Empowerment (WEE) Hub, Kabira added that gender-inclusive tech plays a big role in creating jobs for women. “It is not possible to promote gender equality in technology for women in business if we don’t have women running tech-led businesses,” Kabira said. In order to have as more women take up tech-led jobs, Kabira explained that universities should partner with different eco-system enablers to train more women. “The government has plans to expand the national fiber optic network by 100,000 km. Currently, we are at 52,000 km which means we have 48,000 km left which will happen over the next 10 years,” Kabira said. “This means that there are jobs being created and we need to onboard as many women as possible.” She added that support and building women in businesses to run tech-led businesses should begin at the university level. A recent audit on women-owned companies, Kabira said, established that there are a lot of disparities in the number of women in the tech space. For instance, in a pool of  800 technicians, there are only 50 women. "We were left wondering where all these women who undertake STEM courses go to,” Kabira added. TechnoServe women’s business incubation project lead Catherine Wangechi said that different organisations in the tech ecosystem need to understand the digital profiles of women running tech-led businesses. “There are women who are already tech-savvy and are only interested in advancing onto the next level and you might find there are some who need help with things like opening an email address,” Wangechi said. She said there is need to build capacity at different levels and make sure interventions are just not homogeneous, but are designed for each category of women entrepreneurs. UON VC Stephen Kiama said that digital tech advancements in areas such as AI and robotics, provide unprecedented opportunities to make gender equality a reality. He said equipping Kenyan women with digital literacy skills not only increases the level of gender equality but also grants them access to new employment opportunities. “Tech and innovation has revolutionised the way we work and live," Kiama said, "It can help bridge the gender gap in the workplace by providing women with increased access to jobs as well as better pay through digital innovativeness." The 2021 finance cooperation poll shows that 230 million employment opportunities in Africa will require digital skills by 2030. “Women and girls are limited with their usage and adoption of technology. Their ownership of digital devices also limits their ability to make meaningful use of access to technology. We can change this,” he added. Kabira noted hat tech that adds value to a business is a huge thing for women. She further explained that fintech payment solutions have helped women-run businesses instead of using cash. She urged women and girls running tech-led startups not to rely entirely on pre-seed accelerator funding. “Founders need to go out, find users, sell their product so as to become more grounded and resilient in businesses than depending on handouts. You need to work first on your company, thereafter, you can consider these accelerator fundings,” she said. KEPSA’s executive director Gloria Ndekei said that women can manage their businesses by utilising digital technologies. These include marketing technologies, utilisation of productivity software to reduce production costs and improve customer care and service as well as mobile technologies utilisation. Ndekei said that mobile technologies need to be demystified to help older women entrepreneurs ease their customer base interactions. “As the private sector, we need to work in partnership with women entrepreneurs associations, as well as collaborate with young entrepreneurs associations to take them through the processes of understanding digital technologies, especially apps,” she said. Ndekei also said that KEPSA has managed to capacity-build women in digital technologies through three different programs. “In 2022, through the Ajira digital project, 921,000 women were linked to digitally enabled jobs either part-time or full-time workers in the digital economy. 48 per cent of these are working online at the moment,” she said. In partnership with Google, Ndekei said that the project has also engaged and capacity-built over 5000 women-led businesses. The Kepsa e-commerce booster program which was an initiative by KEPSA with support from trademark had three components. These were mainly targeting onboarding SMEs into existing digital platforms, overseas in-market platforms, and strengthening the digital marketing capabilities of SMEs. About 2,545 businesses were trained and given access to training continent that is utilising tech for business growth. This was within a period of six months. Of these 1,605 were successfully onboarded to various digital platforms with a success rate of 63.79 per cent. During Covid, Kepsa joined the Mastercard Foundation recovery and resilience program. The program offered interest-rate loans of up to Sh 1.5 million per person, repayable within six months to assist women and youth-owned enterprises impacted by Covid. Over 106 SMEs, 65%  being women-owned, benefited from a total of Sh42 billion. Ndekei also called on the establishment of women's tech development hubs across the country for entrepreneurship development as well as women empowerment. Tembea Africa Tours and Travel CEO Winnie Maru called on the feminisation of tech development, so as to build a digital future that has women and girls on board. “We need to have more women and girls in the design of digital tech on different platforms. We also need to bring them into the record management data (RMD) of powerful digital tech like AI,” she said. Maru also said that the promotion of STEM participation for women and girls is crucial. To achieve this, there needs to be gender-responsive education from the classrooms to even the boardrooms within the tech space.