Raila Odinga will take Azimio's public barazas to Nakuru and Kiambu counties prior to the onset of the March 20 mass action. ODM party said in a statement on Tuesday the public baraza in Nakuru County will be held on Thursday, a day before the one in Kiambu. "The Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Coalition has made changes to the week’s itinerary ahead of Monday 20th March as follows; Thursday 16th March - Nakuru County; Friday 17th March, Kiambu County," the party said. The rallies are an addition to the ones Azimio has held over the last five days in the build-up to the impending mass protests against President William Ruto’s regime. On Friday, the opposition troops stormed Raila’s Nyanza backyard with a mega rally in Migori County followed by a similar showcase in Narok County on Saturday. Raila and his troops headed to Mombasa on Sunday before camping in the neighbouring Kilifi County on Monday where they rallied supporters to push for electoral reforms and lowering of skyrocketing cost of living. On Tuesday, Raila pitched camp in Siaya County, another of his political strongholds, where he reassured supporters that the quest for electoral justice and economic reforms was unstoppable. He said a section of the clergy prevailed upon him to postpone the street protests but he declined. Raila said he told the men of the cloth that there is no cause for alarm since the protests will be peaceful "and there will be no form of bloodshed". "Today, a group of clergy through the NCCK have appealed to me to postpone the Monday protest march. I want to tell them in response that we people in Azimio came to a conclusion that we need to have a protest march after our ultimatum was completely ignored," he said. The ODM leader declared March 20 a public holiday to allow Azimio supporters to participate in the demos. His declaration is, however, null and void since the power to declare public holidays rests with the CS, Interior Ministry. "The minister may at any time if he thinks fit, by notice in the Gazette, declare any day to be a public holiday either in addition to the days mentioned in the Schedule or in substitution for any of those days," Section 3 of the Public Holidays Act states.