Wasini Island lies in the southeast part of Kenya, 3km off the coast of the Indian Ocean. The island is home to the marvelous Kisite Mpunguti National marine park. The beauty of the island is simply mesmerizing, ranging from the crystal clear water to the colorful coral reefs and the rich marine life found in its oceans. The abundance of boats on the docks provides an extremely picturesque view and by the way, this is a photographer’s paradise. There are a lot of activities one can engage in on arrival, these include 1. Dolphin watching As the boat is unfastened from the dock at Shimoni Island, it makes its charter to Kisite Marine Park. On the way pods of dolphins escort the boat toward the island. This provides an extremely picturesque view as the sun hits the bodies of the shiny, grey dolphins. 2. Snorkelling/ scuba diving paradise. The island boasts color-rich, lively coral reefs. The ultimate scuba diving and snorkeling paradise. Take a dive into the deep blue water and marvel at the schools of fish swimming rhythmically. The island is truly a diver's bliss, the water isn't too cold hence one can enjoy themselves for a fairly long time. 3. local cuisine. The island is home to the flavor-rich Swahili cuisine, there are quite a number of restaurants offering coconut rice, octopus, calamari, fried fish a variety of coastal stews, and dishes you name it! The cooks at these eating spots skillfully prepare these meals bringing forth the true essence and taste of this cuisine. 4. Local island tours. Visitors can also tour the island and get a glimpse of the lifestyle and culture of the local people, the island itself is sparsely populated, peaceful, and very tranquil. An introvert's paradise one would say. Make sure you carry sunscreen though, the sunshine there is no joke, temperatures during the day may average about 30 to 32 degrees during the day. Places like this need to be protected by us, and that is by conserving the environment, traveling sustainably, and being on the frontline of nature conservation. Since we are the conversation starters and the action takers.