Kenyan Premier League side, Kakamega Homeboyz, have gone on a shopping spree in the ongoing transfer window to bolster their squad ahead of the second leg that kicks off next week. The most conspicuous on the roster of the five fresh additions is Ugandan-born goalkeeper James Ssetuba Cleo who was officially unveiled by the club on Thursday. Ssetuba will be navigating familiar waters having previously plied trade for the defunct Sony Sugar in the same league three years ago. Head coach, Patrick Odhiambo, said they were plunging vast resources into the market to boost their aspirations for a maiden title. “We have acquired goalkeeper James Ssetuba Cleo who joins from Tanzanian Premier League side Ihefu FC. You are aware we parted ways with one of our experienced custodians Geoffrey Oputi and I believe Ssetuba is a perfect replacement," Odhiambo told the Star in an exclusive interview. Odhiambo, who took over from John Baraza last month, has exuded confidence as he builds his dream team for the second half of the season. "We expect the competition to get stiffer in the second leg and it was only necessary for us to beef up our playing unit to keep ourselves in the contention bracket," Odhiambo said. Indeed, the gaffer has injected much-needed quality and experience into the team. Among those called up for duty is former Harambee Stars and Wazito right-back Dennis Sikhayi. Sikhayi adds a plethora of experience to the team, having led Kenya to the Cecafa Senior challenge cup victory in 2017. Odhiambo has recruited one of the country's clinical finishers, Kevin Amwayi, to the side in a desperate effort to make his attacking force razor-sharp. Striker Mohammed Adnan, who joined from Gaadidka FC in the Somali Premier League, has also been added to the squad that will be looking to emulate their second-place finish in the top flight in the 2019/2020 season. Homeboyz have already discharged five players, including former Sofapaka captain Elli Asieche, Christopher Masinza, who has returned to Vihiga Bullets after a loan stay, Meshack Muyonga, Eugene Wethuli, who was recruited from Mathare United, and former KCB captain Simon Abuko. After wrapping up the first leg in the eighth spot, the new technical bench is under intense pressure to deliver an improved performance as the competition enters the home stretch. After finishing eighth in the first leg, the new technical bench is under enormous pressure to provide a better result as the competition reaches the home stretch. Cleophas Shimanyula, the club's owner, read the riot book last month in the run-up to Baraza's firing, and it wasn't surprise when additional heads rolled. Homeboyz wasted an opportunity to win their first title the previous season after a last-minute lapse saw them forfeit their pinnacle position on the log with only a few matches remaining.