Four people were Saturday killed at Lolmolog village in Samburu West in a banditry attack. The attacks occurred as local leaders, national government administration officers and police gathered about 10 kilometres away at Marti village to bury Principal Chief Stephen Letolua. Letolua was a victim of a previous bandit attack in the area as he was one of the eight people killed following attacks in the Lkeeksapurki area last week. Two herdsmen were gunned down on Saturday afternoon at around 2 pm in Lolmolok area by armed bandits believed to be from a neighbouring community. In another separate incident, armed bandits raided Marti area in Samburu North in the wee hours of Saturday. They killed two children before driving away an unknown number of livestock. The Saturday attack occurred as tension is rising in the area following attacks that have left 12 people dead and hundreds of families displaced despite a heavy presence of security personnel deployed in the area for a security operation. The leaders want Interior Cabinet Secretary Kithure Kindiki to move to Samburu and supervise the ongoing security operation from the ground. Samburu West MP Naisula Lesuuda said they are in pain because their people are being killed like flies, yet they have an entire security force deployed there. “This is unacceptable,” Lesuuda said. She challenged the security personnel deployed in the area to be proactive in restoring law and order instead of relying on hearsay. Samburu county commissioner Henry Wafula said the government was committed to ending banditry in the region and promised to protect the people. “The government is aware of the challenges you people are facing, and we are doing everything we can to ensure you and your property are protected. Please do not flee your homes,” Wafula said. There is an ongoing operation in the area and has since seen up to 50 firearms and dozens of bullets recovered mainly in Samburu. Interior CS Kithure Kindiki imposed a dusk-to-dawn curfew in banditry-prone areas as he declared them disturbed and dangerous. The 30 days curfew began on February 14. Kindiki said some areas in counties including Turkana, West Pokot, Elgeyo Marakwet, Baringo, Laikipia, and Samburu will be affected.