MPs on Wednesday took time to air their views on LGBTQ practice in the country following the Supreme Court's recent ruling that members of the community have a right to association. The majority of the lawmakers who made their voices heard condemned all acts of unnatural sexual relations as alien to the African culture. Seme MP James Nyikal in taking that stance denounced LGBTQ saying all forms of homosexuality go against the law of nature. "Have they not even seen the body of a male and the body of a female? They are different?" he said. The MP said the female body was designed such that when males look at it, their natural instincts to procreate automatically become aroused. He said the male gender may be sexually attracted to the breasts, but their main purpose is breastfeeding. "That is all. God is so smart that what we admire must promote your babies," he said. "The truth is Mr Speaker when we look at ladies, what we admire most are the bust and the hips. So everything in nature in terms of mating is about procreation, leave it at that," he said. "Mr Speaker, I do not agree with the decision of these judges." On February 24, a five-judge bench of the Supreme Court made a hallmark ruling that members of the LGBTQ community should be registered as a legal society by the NGO Coordination Board. The court held that the existence of laws prohibiting unnatural sexual relations notwithstanding, the queer community has a right to association. "It would be unconstitutional to limit the right to associate through denial of registration of an association purely on the basis of the sexual orientation of the applicants," the court said. That ruling has been condemned by the church, the Muslim community and political leaders in equal measure. Homa Bay town MP Peter Kaluma who was coincidentally the acting speaker during Wednesday's debate has in furtherance of condemnation of homosexuality in Kenya sought to introduce a bill that proposes harsh punishment on those who practice it. He said, "there's no human right to be gay or lesbian."