The world is facing a continued pandemic when it comes to new drug addiction. Drug addiction is something that can start with just an experimental use of a recreational drug in social situations, and then become a regular thing. (source scottsdale recovery.com) Here are some of the new age' drugs. Fentanyl. With its skyrocketing number of users globally, this drug is among the deadliest. Fentanyl is a synthetic opioid that is 50-100 times stronger than morphine (source DEA.gov). What does fentanyl look like? Fentanyl is typically available in two main types: powder and liquid, typically white in color. Fentanyl, similar to other commonly used opioid analgesics (e.g., morphine), produces effects such as relaxation, euphoria, pain relief, and sedation. This is the reason why this drug is commonly abused by adults and youth globally. Its effects are respiratory depression and arrest, unconsciousness, coma, and death. Purple lean ''Purp.'' Prepared by mixing prescription-strength cough or cold syrup containing codeine and promethazine with a soft drink. The beverage originated in Houston and is popular in hip-hop culture, hence it has gained a mass cult following globally. Some effects of lean according to medicalnewstoday.com include altered states of consciousness, including hallucinations and changes in the way that a person thinks, fatigue, depression, and cloudy thoughts. These sorts of numbing effects are a result of codeine and promethazine. Hence its abuse. LSD ''mellow yellow''or ''Acid.'' LSD (lysergic acid diethylamide) is an illicit hallucinogenic drug(source healthdirect.gov). Typically it comes as a white, odorless powder.LSD is usually swallowed or dissolved under the tongue, but it can be sniffed, injected, smoked, or applied to the skin. Some of the effects of LSD are sensory enhancement, delusions, sweating, alienation, dry mouth, Visual hallucinations, tremors, anxiety, impaired depth perception, and panic attacks. This drug causes someone to experience trippiness, which is a hallucinatory trance-like effect on the body and mind. ''As individuals, we have to make a conscious choice to say no to any kind of drug, one can jokingly engage in such drugs and end up in a jail that is not easy to break out of mentally and physically," Dr Granton Trevor. said.