Royal Media Services (RMS) owned station Citizen TV has lost one of their finest journalists in the recent exodus witnessed at the Dennis Pritt placed media house. Reports reaching out entertainment desk indicate that journalist Sam Ogina left Citizen TV quietly towards the end of last year. A source close to this writer confirmed that Ogina has landed a new job in the office of the Majority leader at the National Assembly. “It’s been almost two months since he started his new assignment at Parliament,” the source divulged to this writer. Despite exiting the station late last year, Ogina was officially bid goodbye by his colleagues at RMS during a joint farewell party with Francis Gachuri who also left the station on March 2, 2023. The farewell party was held in Kilimani, Nairobi. Sam Ogina studied at Daystar University, a Christian liberal arts university. He worked with KTN before joining RMS. On the other hand, Gachuri hanged his boots at RMS after 17 good years. He officially left the station on Thursday last week – taking up a new position as the Head of Communications in the Ministry of Interior. During his farewell speech on the News Gang, Gachuri reflected on his journey at the media house thanking his colleagues, bosses, and viewers for the support they have given him. Every journalist that was there gave out their farewell wishes and speeches. Yvonne Okwara also noted that they would have celebrated five years of knowing each other and being friends in May, thanking him for being a great friend, colleague, and also a mentor and they even ended up playing a Nursery Rhymes "By shot, I love you, baby." "I'm just really happy for you with this transition that you have. I am sad at the same time because I won't get to see you every day but they are really lucky to have you and I'm sure that you will do a fantastic job," Yvonne Okwra said emotionally. On the other hand, Linus Kaikai the Royal Media Editorial Director described him as an industry jewel and a golden boy of political journalism adding that the Ministry of Interior would be lucky to have him insisting that the industry will be poor without him. "And wherever you always go always say the truth and stick by the truth and we will miss you"he added. The media house also celebrated Gachuri by showcasing how he has evolved from how he used to report and as the video played the celebrated journalist stared in disbelief and was taken by emotions not believing the growth that has come with all that.