SportPesa Mega Jackpot bonus winner Godfrey Karithi expressed how disappointed he was in Manchester United after their 7-goal demolition by Liverpool. Karithi, a miraa vendor, was fortunate enough to get 15 out of 17 correct predictions in last weekend’s Mega Jackpot and won a handsome Sh1,143,019. He was one of three lucky gamers to become millionaires as Paul Gicheha and Weldon Kibet also received the hearty bonus after 15 correct predictions. Karithi, a staunch Man United fan, went on to explain how he bet against his team as they prepared for their acid test against fiercest rivals Liverpool. “I knew Liverpool would obviously beat Man United. What I did not expect however, was the number of goals by which we would lose by! “When the Mega Jackpot games were all over, I looked at my bet slip and realized that had I not changed my initial prediction for the Fiorentina and the Frankfurt matches, I would have gone home with the entire jackpot amount,” Karithi told SportPesa’s Blog. Gordon Ogada remains the highest football jackpot winner in Kenya after his Sh230,742,881 victory and he was followed by Cosmas Korir months later, who bagged Sh208,733,619. Since there has not been a winner, the progressive jackpot has now hit unbelievable heights of Sh290,541,642. The 24-year old has plans to purchase land and grow miraa, a cash crop mainly from the Meru region of Kenya, to expand his business. “I thank God for the money I have won and I plan to expand my miraa business and this will in turn provide more income for me and my family. “That Mega Jackpot is still there and available so I cannot stop trying. If I can come that close, who knows, I could end up winning the entire amount,” he added. It only costs Sh99 to place your bet on this week’s Mega Jackpot and you could stand the chance to become the biggest football jackpot winner in the country. There are mouth-watering bonuses available as well from 12 correct predictions and don’t forget you can choose which jackpot you prefer from the 17 games available. This weekend, the SportPesa Mega Jackpot kicks off with three matches lined up at 6pm on Saturday, March 11. If you miss the kick off of these matches, you can still play the 14 or 13-game jackpots which will kick off at 6:15pm and 6:30pm respectively. Simply click this link and place your bet on the Mega Jackpot!