Fresh from playing at the Magical Kenya Ladies Open at the Vipingo Ridge last month, Mercy Nyanchama has pronounced herself ready for the Pro-Am Magical Kenya Open this morning. The event will be a percussor for the main event on Thursday at the par 71 Muthaiga Golf Club. Eight Kenyan professionals and six amateurs will be up in action. Nyanchama, who is from VetLab Golf Club in Nairobi, said she hopes to gain from the foreign professionals who have dominated Magical Kenya since its inception. “I know my swing is good now but my priority will be to learn from the top golfers from around the globe in a bid to improve my game. This will be a good opportunity for us,” said Nyanchama. Nyamchama is set to tee off at 7:20 am alongside professional player Oliver Wilson, Ashwin Punja and Godwin Karuga in a congested field of over 200 golfers who will be chasing glory. “As I speak right now, I can't wait to tee off after numerous training programmes across the country and  I look forward to good results," she said. Nyanchama is the highest-ranked Kenyan in the 2022 edition. “I am very excited to play at this year’s Magical Kenya Open tournament and it is a really great learning opportunity as I look to turn pro in the near future,” she said. At the Ladies' Open, Nyanchama teamed up with Vipingo’s Naomi Wafula, Nancy Wairimu and Chanelle Wangari to fly the country's flag. “Playing with pros hands you an automatic experience and I really want to see how they play. When you play with a professional, he or she will teach you a few tactics while on the course. As much as my swing is good, I still want to improve my game,” said Nyanchama. Experienced Wafula and Nyanchama made their third appearance at the tournament, having featured in the 2019 and 2022 editions while 16-year-old Wangari was featuring for the second time. Other notable Kenyan ladies in the Pro-Am are Jane Babasa, Rosemary Mkok, Judy Wanjiku, Alice Awiti, Maryam Mwakitawa, Joyce Sitonik, Patricia Ithau, Betty Maina, Jane Karuku, Betty Gacheru, Catherine Gachie, Susan Kanyora, Nancy Wairimu and Ashley Awuor among others. In the professionals' category, Greg Snow, Samuel Njoroge, Dismas Indiza, Simon Ngige, Mutahi Kibugu, Jastas Madoya, Daniel Nduva and Mike Kisia will be in action. The amateurs will feature —  Dennis Maara (Limuru),  John Lejrima (Railways), Adel Balala (Nyali),  Jay Sandu (Kenya Railways), Njoroge Kibugu (Muthaiga0 and compatriot Daniel Kiragu.