The Senate Standing Committee on Labour on Tuesday will begin  investigations into alleged fraud by the First Choice Recruitment Agency in Uasin Gishu. The agency has handled more than 8,000 youths who were seeking foreign jobs in Qatar and other Middle East countries. This comes as the firm flagged off another group of more than 100 youth who will travel this week for jobs in Poland, Qatar and Saudi Arabia. The event at the firm’s offices was attended by church leaders. First Choice has been at the centre of controversies over claims that it collected millions of shillings from youth in Uasin Gishu but failed to secure jobs for them in Qatar before last year's World Cup. However Chepchirchir denied the allegations and termed them as a witch- hunt by rivals. "So far, we have processed more than 8,000 youth who secured jobs outside the county, especially in Qatar and travelled to take up the jobs," she said. She said her office was only aware of about 20 youth who were complaining over missed jobs in Qatar but the firm had already refunded fees to four of them. Some went to court while others were yet to approach First Choice and seek refunds. "Most of the others making noise are not even our clients but those being used to dirty our reputation," Chepchirchir said.. Some of the youth who claim to have missed the jobs after paying money to First Choice wrote petitions to the Uasin Gishu assembly and the Senate seeking investigations into the matter. They complained their parents had suffered a lot and some even sold land to pay First Choice for processing travel abroad. The Uasin Gishu assembly completed investigations through an ad hoc Committee which recommended cancellation of the firm's licence and investigations by the DCI. The Senate has now summoned the complainants led by human rights activist Kimutai Kirui to appear before the Labour Committee on Wednesday this week. Senate Clerk Jeremiah Nyegenye wrote to Kirui who filed the petition behalf of the complaints. The clerk asked him to go with anyone else who may provide the information required. "The Committee considered your petition and resolved to invite you to provide further clarification on the petition," Nyegenye said. However Chepchirchir said her licence to operate the firm was legally issued and that she had done nothing wrongly to warrant cancellation. She the firm's offices in Eldoret were open and operate transparently and that anyone with complaints was free to seek audience with them. "If anyone has issues with us the best thing to do is to seek audience with us so that we address relevant concerns instead of making noise out there,"she said She denied her firm was linked to some powerful politicians, noting that the same claims were aimed at staging a vendetta and political fight against her. (Edited by V. Graham)