Jubilant Meru University students on Tuesday walked more than 20 kilometres to welcome back vice chancellor Romanus Odhiambo. Prof Odhiambo, commonly known as comrade’s sweetheart, was reinstated after four days of forced terminal leave. The students walked from the university to Meru National Polytechnic, where they met Odhiambo who was returning from Nairobi after he was reinstated. The walk along the Meru-Maua highway also marked the end of their four-day protest to demand Odhiambo's reinstatement. Odhiambo was accompanied by Higher Education PS Beatrice Inyangala. She escorted him to the university administration block where he resumed duty immediately. The student’s walk however caused panic in Makutano town, disrupting business for more than four hours as most traders closed their shops for fear they would be looted. The VC thanked the students, President William Ruto, Education CS Ezekiel Machogu, Nchiru residents and all those who supported him. “My dear students you have spoken. We must be a world-class university. I know some of you have not eaten for six days and some have not taken a shower for six days. Go and rest. We shall tell you when to return to class,” Odhiambo said. Most students praised him for freely interacting with them and not sending home those with fee arrears. Odhiambo was suspended on February 27 by the university council. On Tuesday, CS Machogu ordered the immediate reinstatement of Odhiambo, who was sent on terminal leave on grounds of poor performance. In a statement, Machogu termed the move to suspend Odhiambo "ill-intended". Machogu also suspended the Meru University Council members starting March 9. “The council’s term comes to a lapse on March 9. The ministry is taking the necessary steps to constitute a successor council,” Machogu said in a statement. VC Odhiambo was suspended by the university council led by chairman Bosire Mwebi. Other council members include Muriira M’Mbwiria, Stephen Kimani, Dick Waswa, Pauline Jeruto, Naomi Kipuri, Paul Mungai and Damaris Nyasuguta (treasury).