The Kenyan and South Korea governments have launched four Economic Innovation Partnership Programme (EIPP) projects, to speed up  the development of the Konza Technopolis. Lined up include integration of the Intelligent Transport System (ITS) and integrated control centre, establishment of a startup ecosystem, development of smart logistics and the development of the Konza-Nairobi corridor transport network. The projects follow the implementation of the first EIPP projects implemented in March last year. Last year saw the development of the smart city master plan, feasibility study on the integrated control centre focusing on security operations and the establishment of a transportation network and smart mobility plans that meet urban functions of the city. Speaking at yesterday's,  Information, Communication and Digital Economy Cabinet Secretary Eliud Owalo, said the projects under the  partnership are a commendable leverage to boost the government’s drive on digital economy. “The government is keen to forge partnerships that will spur the country’s socio-economic transformation, particularly in the digital economy,” Owalo said. He said Kenya is committed to drive innovation and technology, highlighting the 3,000 government services currently available in the e-citizen. The director general, development cooperation office (KOTRA), Park Chul Ho, said they are proud to have recorded success in the first year of the programme and are looking forward for a successful second year. “I am glad that the first year gave us different experiences due to the Covid-19, but we have continued to work towards our goals with an aim of successful implementation this year,” Ho said. State Department for Roads Principal Secretary John Mbugua, said the ministry will fully support the pact, especially in development of the roads infrastructure to the smart city as part of the wider national infrastructure development for the country. The 2022/23 Kenya-South Korea EIPP will be implemented by the Korea Trade-Investment and Promotion Agency (KOTRA) and the Konza Technopolis Development Authority (KoTDA).