Human rights defenders in Homa Bay have called on the county executive government to prioritize the rights of persons with disabilities (PWDs)and avoid discrimination. Under the banner, Bunge la Wenye Nchi, the activists Walter Opiyo, Evans Oloo and Michael Kojo said there are complaints from disabled persons that they are discriminated against when the executive is hiring staff. They expressed concerns that the Homa Bay government has continued to ignore disabled persons despite them having raised such complaints. They said such discrimination began during nominations of MCAs at the Homa Bay County Assembly where they alleged that two MCAs were nominated on behalf of persons with disabilities yet they are not disabled. Oloo said they are planning to file a petition in court to terminate the contract of the two MCAs. He argued that the nomination of the two MCAs contravened the rights of persons with disabilities. “Two MCAs who were nominated to county assembly to represent persons with disabilities but they don’t deserve the positions. We’re going to court to terminate their contract because it violated the rights of persons with disabilities,” Oloo said. Speaking during their meeting at posta ground in Homa Bay town on Tuesday, Kojo said the removal of the two MCAs will serve justice to persons with disabilities. “We have enough evidence to prove to the court that the two MCAs are not disabled. The petition to request the court to remove them from their offices is in the process,” Kojo said. Opiyo who is the head of the organization argued that respecting the rights of persons with disabilities will enhance cohesion and integration in society. He argued that persons with disabilities should also be given tender based on the constitutional requirement. “Persons with disabilities should also feel that they are part of our county. The constitution stipulates it so hence they should be accorded the rights they deserve,” Opiyo said. Elizabeth Wasonga, a PWD, said they have raised complaints without success. She said they are discriminated against in employment even if they possess the requisite academic qualifications. She also called on the county government and employers in the private sector to give them due consideration. “The county government has ignored disabled persons. Some of us have all the required academic qualifications but the employer has continued to ignore them because of their physical disabilities," Wasonga said.