BoConcept, an international luxury designer furniture brand, today celebrated young and upcoming interior designers in Kenya after a one-month competition and mentorship program. The awarding ceremony was in line with their 70th-year anniversary. The program was in partnership with the Interior Designers Association of Kenya (IDAK) to offer a platform for young designers to learn and gain experience. The mentors who attended were President of IDAK George Karani, IDAK vice president Ceciliah Mbati, Jacinta Serem, media personality Nailantei Kenga, director RD designs Anna Nichol Wanyee, BoConcept regional manager Grace Kalu, proprietor and lecturer Dr Henry Mukhwana. “The space provided an opportunity for the participants to get exposed to the established professionals in the field and learn about the industry,” said Grace Kalu. Nicole Anubi emerged as the overall winner, while second place went to Juliet Mangira and Sonia Omindi was third. Nicole expressed her excitement about being first and was awarded a Cupertino desk design by BoConcept. “The experience was very engaging. I was able to connect with various interior designers, learn and network," said Nicole. She added that the opportunity enabled her to learn from the other participants. “We all come from different backgrounds and have different ideas, and creative minds and the coming together helped each one of us to grow.” Juliet and Sonia had the same sentiments in regard to what the future holds for them in the industry. “As designers, it´s important we keep learning and be aware of the emerging trends in technology so we´re not left behind.” “One can make mistakes but always believe in your work, every day is a learning process,” Juliet added. All participants were encouraged to build a strong portfolio, and network, have a brand identity, develop a social media presence and provide exceptional services. The winners will also get a 3-months paid mentoring internship offered by IDAK. Through the internship, they will go through more training, mentorship by other professionals, and site visits. “They will learn about building a design basement, packaging themselves and their concepts and also do site visits to interact with contractors and get practical knowledge,” said Ceciliah Mbati. Mukhwana expressed concerns about the industry being invaded by crooks who are not qualified and present themselves to clients at a lesser fee. “This happens because there is a lack of regulation in the interior design market. To curb this, we are trying to get a bill through the parliament,” he said. “This will help in having a regulatory structure to weed out people who are not qualified. I believe this will happen soon,” Mukhwana added. He also blamed the Architectural Association of Kenya (AAK) for poaching its members and giving them executive positions. “That is uncalled for and very unprofessional. We would have wanted a more collaborative approach. Where we work to benefit a client in the same project, that would have been ideal,” Mukhwana said. He finished by saying having a database for all qualified designers will be good for the industry.