Sleep, according to cambrige.com in simple definition is to be in a state of rest when your eyes are closed, your body is not active, and your mind is unconscious. Sleep has a lot of benefits and is arguably the secret to longevity. What causes us to sleep? The production of the hormone melatonin in the brain. Here are some of its benefits. Sleep has been proven to benefit the long-term memory of an individual since the consolidation of memory in the brain takes place as we sleep. Research suggests that sleep helps learning and memory in two distinct ways. First, a sleep-deprived person cannot focus attention optimally and therefore cannot learn efficiently. Second, sleep itself has a role in the consolidation of memory, which is essential for learning new information. (source Harvard.edu) Another thing that your brain does while you sleep is processing your emotions. Your mind needs this time in order to recognize and react the right way. When you cut that short, you tend to have more negative emotional reactions and fewer positive ones. In fact sleep deprivation has been linked to having unstable moods that may lead to depression. Also, while you sleep, your blood pressure goes down, giving your heart and blood vessels a bit of a rest. The less sleep you get, the longer your blood pressure stays up during a 24-hour cycle. Sleep offers good recovery to the muscles, it enhances muscle recovery through protein synthesis and human growth hormone release. According to Sports lab new york.com, this process stimulates muscle growth and recovery. A 2018 study by the National library of medicine in America stated that individuals who regularly slept less than 7  hours per night were more likely to have higher average body mass indexes and develop obesity than those who slept more. Studies showed that experimental sleep restriction was associated with increased levels of ghrelin, salt retention, and inflammatory markers as well as decreased levels of leptin and insulin sensitivity. Again too much of anything is poisonous, and sleeping in excess may cause diabetes and obesity, so it's important to balance your sleep. Dr.Granton Trevor says ''Sleep is a very good doctor, it restores, rejuvenates, and protects, so develop good sleeping habits and live a high-quality healthy life."