Ad Dynamo by Aleph has appointed Stephen Newton as its new managing director for Africa. Before his appointment, Newton worked as the managing director of Google South Africa, VP, and MD of the Ad Exchange for Google-bought DoubleClick EMEA. He also served as Africa for PostivoBGH's MD, Date.ce CEO and Universal Music Group Africa interim COO. Newton is expected to prioritise pan-African expansion and assist Ad Dynamo’s partners in overcoming the challenges of doing business across the continent. Ad Dynamo by Aleph is Spotify’s, Snap’s, Twitter’s, and Yahoo’s exclusive media buying extension in Africa. As an enabler of digital advertising in emerging markets, the organisation is helping to break down barriers in business. Newton said that they plan to continue to grow in anticipation of their partner’s needs. “We will build where they need us using tried and trusted methodologies, and we will continue to collaborate to create platforms that reduce the friction associated with doing business in these markets,” he said. “As both a developing market and a continent with a rapidly growing population, Africa is poised to house not only a sizeable portion of the world’s population but also a sizeable portion of the world’s eligible workforce.” Newton brings over more than 25 years of experience leading EMEA businesses across the digital space. He is currently on a number of advisory boards for startups and mid-sized African companies that work in different parts of the online space. He is also the chairman and co-founder of The Illuminate Africa Group Ltd., a consulting firm that helps companies achieve their African expansion goals. Ad Dynamo by Aleph represents the leading digital media platforms in Sub-Saharan Africa and more than 115 markets through an extension of its global extension of subsidiaries. Aleph is a digital advertising enabler, connecting thousands of advertisers in developing countries with the major digital platforms, in more than 115 countries through its global. Ad Dynamo by Aleph supports Aleph Group’s vision to equalise the digital ecosystem as the latter creates the opportunity for all people and businesses to advertise at a local and global level.