Shabana returned to winning ways in the FKF National Super League after drubbing visiting Darajani Gogo 3-0 at Gusii Stadium on Friday. The NSL log leaders had gone three games without a win, losing two and drawing one. In Friday afternoon’s game, Shabana dominated proceedings with new signing Maurice Dukully rattling the upright in the 10th minute. The Glamour Boys took the lead in the 35th minute when lanky midfielder Peter Ogechi headed home a rebound after Darajani Gogo goalkeeper Emmanuel Orwa buried Vincent Nyabuto’s header against the crossbar to give Shabana a 1-0 lead at the break. In the second half, Darajani Gogo coach Pius Aringa made three substitutions but they did not bear fruits as new signing George Onyango added Shabana’s second goal from a free kick in the 84th minute. Augustine Simiyu wrapped up the scores for Shabana in stoppage time. Shabana coach Sammy Okoth handed debuts to goalkeeper Erick Ongiri, Dukully and Onyango. Ongiri and Dukully played for 90 minutes while Onyango was a second-half substitute. Okoth said the win was very important for his team. “It means a lot to us because we had gone three games without a win. It’s a plus to us and going forward, we are taking all our matches as finals,” said Okoth. He praised the new signings saying: “Ongiri, Dukully, and Onyango gave a good account of themselves. That is what we wanted.” Darajani Gogo’s Aringa said: “We have tested the other side of the football. We came to play and Shabana did not want to play. There were many stoppages including unnecessary water breaks which slowed down our game. However, I congratulate Shabana for winning the game and maintaining their lead on top of the NSL log.” He added: “I have a young team and rhythm is key to us. We did not play our game because, in football, you need to pass the ball around from buildup, to transition and finishing.” In another game, Mwatate United beat SS Assad 3-2 at Wundanyi Stadium.  On Saturday, second-placed Gusii FC will seek to bounce back from their shocking 1-0 loss against Mombasa Elites when they host Migori Youth at Gusii Stadium while fourth-placed Kibera Black Stars battle Mully Children’s Family at Ligi Ndogo grounds. Mara Sugar face Mombasa Elite at Awendo Green Stadium in Migori county as Coastal Heroes welcome Kisumu All Stars at Mbaraki Sports Club in Mombasa.