The Kenya Meteorological Department has released a new seasonal forecast of the March to May long rain seasons, sighting that a larger part of the country will receive below-average rainfalls. Speaking in a press conference on Wednesday, the director of the Meteorological Department David Gikungu, said that rains will start in the third week of March. Lake Victoria Basin, Highlands West of Rift Valley, Central Rift, Nairobi, Coastal region and Narok among areas will receive rainfall that is below average. "Below-average rainfall is expected over the Lake Victoria Basin, Highlands West of the Rift Valley, Central Rift Valley, Highlands East of the Rift Valley including Nairobi County, Coastal region, most of Northeastern and Southeastern Lowlands and Western parts of Narok, " said Gikungu. Gikungu added that most areas will have a generally poor distribution of rainfall in both time and space. "The season is expected to experience a normal to delayed onset with poor distribution characterized by long dry spells over the areas expected to receive below average rainfall as well as in the ASAL region," he said. According to the Kenya Meteorological Department, long rains are expected during the March to May period in most parts of Kenya and much of equatorial Eastern Africa. Parts of the Northwest (Western Marsabit), Southeastern lowlands (Kajiado), and Southern Rift Valley (Eastern parts of Narok), will receive near-average rainfall also known as normal rainfall. The Highlands East of the Rift Valley that is Nairobi County, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang'a, Kiambu, Embu, Meru, Tharaka Nithi and eastern parts of Laikipia is expected to receive rainfall that is likely to be below the long-term average amounts for the season. The Northeast and parts of the Northwest such as Wajir, Garissa, Mandera, Isiolo, and eastern parts of Marsabit and Samburu will receive rainfall that is likely to be below the long-term average for the season. The Southeastern Lowlands which include Kitui, Makueni, Machakos and Taita Taveta, will also receive rainfall below the long-term average. The Coastal Strip that is Mombasa, Tana River, Kilifi, Lamu and Kwale counties are also expected to receive rainfall that is likely to be below the long-term average.