Newly-appointed Wazito head coach, Charles Odera, is optimistic the club's fortunes in the Kenyan Premier League would soon improve. Odera, who was presented with his new job a week ago, was given a harsh awakening at the start of his tenure when his team was defeated 1-0 by a revived Mathare United side. His woes were compounded following their 3-1 thrashing by Kariobangi Sharks at Muhoroni Stadium on Wednesday. Yet Odera believes they can overcome the series of setbacks and perform admirably in their subsequent matches. "I don't think it's fair to evaluate us based on those results. Of course, losing a game is disappointing, but I feel we can make apologies in future games," Odera stated. The tactician joins the top-tier side from APS Bomet, who won the previous National Super League season that was managed by the Transition Committee. Bomet's joy was short-lived, however, as the Football Kenya Federation overturned their victory, claiming they were not involved in organising the competition, which was overseen by a government-appointed body. Odera expressed gratitude for landing a position with the 'Moneybags' stating that he will work to restore the squad to a title contender despite their dismal start to the season. "Wazito are a strong club with excellent players and management. I took the unexpected detour since I was looking for a fresh challenge in my coaching profession. I have always desired to join the top-flight stage and when the opportunity came I ran and got hold of it," Odera said. Notwithstanding his baptism by fire in his first two tasks as manager of the Muhoroni-based side, Odera sees a bright future. Odera noted that he has just spent a few days with his players and that he will need more time to sharpen their talons and align them with his coaching philosophy. He believes significant changes must be done at the club in order to move it to the next level, including reinforcing the playing unit with the requisite experience. "We are looking forward to the forthcoming transfer window to see if we can strengthen the squad and make it more competitive. More people will be required. The emphasis should not be on the loss, but on how we approach the next several games," Odera stated Wazito are currently staring at relegation after a poor run that has left them second from the bottom, but Odera says he is not worried about their current status in the cutthroat competition. "The standings are not final and we haven't even concluded the first half of the season. We stand to turn around our fortunes if we work hard enough in our subsequent fixtures," he said. 