Eldas MP Adan Keynan on Tuesday said Northeastern will not take part in the countrywide mass action called by Azimio leader Raila Odinga. The Jubilee party vice chairperson said the region is currently facing a myriad of challenges, among them severe drought and has no time for mass action. Keynan urged leaders from the region to focus on the problems facing residents. The MP spoke in Eldas town when he inspected a number of projects in the area. “As a region we are going through a very rough patch following five seasons of failed rain which is threatening both lives and livelihoods. It is a race against time to save our people from starvation. Street protests are the least of things occupying the minds of people from the North,” Keynan said. He urged Northern Kenya leaders to support President William Ruto's administration in delivering his manifesto and addressing the challenges bedeviling the region. “The people of Eldas and the entire region want development and will never subscribe to anarchy, demonstrations, boycotts or endless standoffs because Kenya is a country of order guided by the utmost respect for the rule of law,” Keynan said. He appealed to the youth not to be misused by politicians but instead be champions of peace. “The most discouraging bit of these demonstrations is that the majority of them are the youth who are being used to cause mayhem and destruction. You must resist this going forward,” the lawmaker said. Keynan advised those harbouring 2027 presidential ambitions to hold their horses and give the current regime time to deliver on their campaign promises. Last week, Raila announced the start of countrywide mass action. “Take note that on March 20, 2023, we have a date with destiny in Nairobi. On that day, our supporters throughout the country shall stage a massive procession in Nairobi for a legitimate and inclusive government. Save the date,” Raila said. He cited 15 grounds which he said informed the need for mass action, including the high cost of living and the removal of subsidies on unga, electricity and fuel. He said Ruto is also creating unnecessary and unconstitutional offices to reward his cronies. Other grounds are ethnicity, importation of GMOs, overtaxation, attempt to single-handedly reconstitute the IEBC, division of the country along religious and sectarian lines and victimisation of the Cherera Four. There have already been pockets of street protests in Kisumu, Vihiga and Migori, with the coalition indicating plans to fire up all their political bases ahead of the major processions.