A sombre mood has engulfed Ndakaru village, Kanduyi constituency Bungoma County after unknown thugs invaded the home of an Australian citizen, Hewitt Peter John,67, and killed him. Hewitt is married to a Kenyan lady Lilian Mikasia, 33, who stays in Kanduyi, Bungoma. Speaking to the press on Wednesday, Edward Makechi, the neighbour said that at 8 pm he heard a commotion at Hewitt’s residence. He added that he tried checking on what was happening but was scared of dogs at Hewitt’s residence hence he could not get near. “I was at my home having supper. I heard a commotion at the deceased’s place. I immediately alerted other neighbours to come so that we could storm his residence and check what was really happening,”  he said. "I heard Hewitt shout “don’t kill me! don’t kill me!" he added. Makechi said that after the crowd arrived at Hewitt’s place, they found his lifeless body lying in a pool of blood with multiple injuries on the face, head, hands and legs. However, Makechi said that the deceased has been having quarrels with his wife for a very long time. “Sometimes it is hard to reach their home and cool down the daily wrangles,” he said. While confirming the incident, Bungoma County police commander Francis Kooli condemned the incident. He called on married couples to seek amicable ways of sorting wrangles. Kooli lauded members of the public for collaborating with the police. Four people have been arrested in connection to the murder of an Australian origin. “Immediately we received the report from both the area chief and members of the public, the police went to the scene of the crime. They camped there and were able to arrest four suspects,” Kooli noted. Kooli added that the police were able to locate the motorbikes that were used in the alleged gruesome murder. He said that the police have launched investigations adding the four will be arraigned on Thursday. He said that the body of the deceased was taken to Bungoma county referral hospital mortuary for autopsy.