Wema Sepetu has hinted that she has already been introduced to her boyfriend's family. She and rapper Whozu have been dating since mid-last year. "I am someone who likes to show their feelings, I don't pretend. It's either I like you or I don't," she told journalists yesterday. Asked when they were going to do family introduction, she replied, "You think I haven't gone for introduction?" Last year, Sepetu left fans in shock when she said she will get buried if the rapper ever dumped her. "Ukiniacha wanizike, waje wanizike," she said. In a past radio interview, Whozu explained what caused their miscarriage. He said he was a jealous boyfriend and had not forgiven Wema for something she had done at the time. "Wema was pregnant in August. When it was about three months, we argued and almost broke up," she said. "I was the one who was on the wrong and I had gotten angry at Wema and couldn't get myself to listen to her. I wanted to just break up with her. "I didn't know that that would affect the pregnancy. I wasn't a gentleman, I love her and I felt she had hurt me. "She begged for my forgiveness and I couldn't listen. I was given the news that she had undergone a miscarriage. "She sent me a message saying, 'That's what you wanted, are you happy?' I felt confused and she cried a lot." "I asked myself many questions. I regretted." Sepetu hinted that she hasn't given up on looking for a child. She added that the doctors had advised her to stay away from stress and be on bed rest. "When we argue, it stays between us, and we don't like to put it in the open. I don't want to involve people in a lot of what really happens in our lives. We love to see people see us love each other but keep the problems to ourselves," she said. "Yes, it happened and I really don't like to talk about it because its something I wouldn't want to see happen again and I wasn't happy about it. "It's a problem I have had. I spoke to my doctors and they said I needed proper bed rest. I shouldn't be stressed. "I'm hoping that this time when I get pregnant, it is successful." Whozu has in the past promised fans to marry the former Miss Tanzania.