Siaya deputy governor William Oduol has come out to defend himself over claims by Gem MP Elisha Odhiambo that he is corrupt. The ODM MP, while addressing his constituents on Tuesday sensationally accused the DG of allegedly taking bribes to give tenders to contractors. The MP didn't offer names of the alleged contractors nor did he specify which tenders were purportedly dished out by the DG upon receiving the alleged bribes. Evaluation of the tenders is going on in Kisumu. Early last month, the county government of Siaya advertised tenders worth Sh 900 million. The tenders involved road projects. A team of procurement officials have in the last two weeks been sitting in Kisumu to evaluate the bids before announcing successful bidders. Speaking at the CDF office at Wagayi during the distribution of bursary cheques, the legislator claimed he has in his possession a video clip that captured the alleged transaction that Odhiambo claimed took place at a bank in Kisumu. "He ( Oduol) is corrupt. He takes bribes to give you a contract for county government tenders," he said. " I have a video that captured what am talking about and I'll release it soon. You know me and I don't just talk without knowing what am talking about," Odhiambo is captured saying in a video that has since gone viral. The MP asked governor James Orengo to put his house ( to mean his administration) in order or he will fix the same for him. But the war of words between Siaya's deputy governor and the MP took a twist on Wednesday when Oduol hit back. Speaking with Mayienga FM, Oduol said he was being targeted because of the 2027 politics but dismissed the corruption claims by the third-term MP. He said it was in the public domain that the lawmaker was on the radar of the EACC over the alleged misappropriation of CDF funds. "In fact, it is him who is corrupt and he is facing investigation by the EACC over how he has been managing the constituency funds allocations," he said. Oduol claimed the MP was running scared after he was put in the spotlight for having visited the State House. Odhiambo is among nine legislators from Luo Nyanza who visited president William Ruto last month at the State House. The visit saw the MPs branded traitors. " He is looking for a scapegoat by unfairly tainting the image of leaders whom he views as a threat to him. He knows he has been isolated by his peers and he's looking for relevance," he said during the radio interview. He said that unlike him, Odhiambo declared his interest in the Siaya governor race in 2027. "He is targeting me unfairly while I have not said I want to contest the seat in 2027," he said. The DG said he remains loyal to his boss governor Orengo and will go home together when they have completed their term. "I and the governor have one agenda. To deliver the promises we made to the people of Siaya in accordance with our manifesto. If he goes home, we will do so together because we will be judged jointly. The issue of 2027 is not our priority now," he said. He said those who are keen to sow seeds of discord between him and the governor by spreading falsehoods will fail. "We are committed to fighting corruption. I can't be accused of engaging in corruption when I am not the appointing authority. I also don't work in the finance department or in procurement," he said.