Githunguri MP Gathoni Wamuchomba has asked Kiambu governor Kimani Wamatangi to improve services or they boycott paying revenues to his government. Speaking during the food distribution exercise in her constituency, Wamuchomba said they will not allow some areas to lack essential services. She raised concerns with a number of fire incidents reported in the area saying the county should ensure a fire engine is designated in the area to avert further crises. Wamuchomba said many cases are where victims are left counting losses of property since they do not salvage anything. "Even though firefighters do not prevent fire from burning, they reduce cases of victims from losing everything," she said. She spoke at Kambaa village in the Githiga ward in her constituency, where she also donated foodstuff to needy locals. Wamuchomba asked Wamatangi to move with speed and set up a fire fighting station in her constituency. Whenever there is a fire incident, locals are asked to wait for a fire engine which travels from Kiambu town, Karuri or Thika. "Before these vehicles arrive from these stations, it takes about an hour. A fire burning a house for more than one hour leaves nothing being saved, it burns everything" said Peter Njunge, a resident. The legislator asked the governor to keep fire brigadiers ready to answer distress calls at any time of the day and at night. Wamuchomba pointed out that, fire incidences have been witnessed in Githunguri, Limuru, Ndeiya and other places, with firefighters reportedly arriving a bit too late. The agitated legislator threatened to ask locals to stop paying county taxes if the firefighters respond poorly again. "Last time, he said the houses got burnt completely because they were wooden. We shall tell him that we all have wooden houses," she noted. "If another house gets fire and nothing is salvaged, we shall stop paying county revenues until fire stations are built or firefighting teams are kept on standby in regions where there are no stations," she said. "The people who voted for us need to be served with dignity" she added. The legislator also asked Wamatangi to reduce bars in the region since a small town had more than 60 alcoholic outlets.