Three-time Boston Marathon champion Ibrahim Hussein believes the competitive nature of sports, especially athletics, could be leading athletes to Anti-Doping Rule Violations. Hussein, who is also a former New York Marathon champion, said sportsmen and women are trying to use all manner of tricks to hit the top; including the use of substances prohibited under the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) Code. Speaking during the second Athletics Kenya meeting at Nyayo Stadium last weekend, Hussein said: “Athletics in Kenya is now very competitive compared to the 90s. This is why athletes are trying so hard, to the extent of using performance-enhancing substances.” “They use various drugs to enhance their performances and this is a very big challenge. Athletes could still excel if they are not only talented but serious.” According to the Athletics Integrity Unit (AIU), at least 55 Kenyan athletes are currently banned from competing for ADRV. Among the top Kenyans currently under suspension/ban include 2019 Boston and Chicago Marathon champion Lawrence Cherono and 2021 Boston Marathon champion Diana Kipyokei. In addition to using banned substances, some athletes have been cited for missed tests by evading Doping Control Officers and refusing or failing to submit to sample collection. However, Hussein believes efforts being made by the government, through the Anti-Doping Agency of Kenya and the various federations, especially Athletics Kenya will bear fruits. Last year the country evaded a global ban after the government committed to funding anti-doping activities to the tune of US$5m. “The Anti-doping Agency of Kenya has waged a war against athletes who violate anti-doping rules. The system is there and the chances of them being caught are very high,” Hussein added. “The Cabinet Secretary for Sports — Ababu Namwamba is putting  in US$ 5,000,000 to combat this problem and that to me is a very serious commitment.” Ibrahim Hussein won the Boston Marathon In 1988, 1991, and 1992. He was also the first Kenyan to triumph at the 1987 New York City Marathon. 