Champions Gor Mahia kicked off their FKF Cup title defence on a bright note after pipping third-tier club Kibera Soccer FC to advance to the second round of the MozzartBet FKF Cup at the Kasarani Stadium on Sunday. Lloyd Khavuchi was the toast of the day, netting the game’s lone goal in the first half. Khavuchi stroked home a low shot in the 33rd minute from John Macharia through the pass. Head coach Jonathan McKinistry praised his team for the victory, stating they achieved their mission despite the low margin. “Many people anticipated us to score more goals because we were playing a lower-tier team. Such matches are typically challenging since such teams and their players usually have something to prove,” McKinstry said. The Irish tactician has tipped his charges to romp into the Domestic Cup finals, saying their urge to grace the continental stage was now stronger than ever. “We have a fantastic crop of players who have proven they’re worth in the Kenyan Premier League, and I don’t see why they won’t be able to reproduce their form in this league,” McKinstry added. Their next focus is on the second leg of the Kenyan Premier League season where they will open their account in a tricky tie away to Nzoia Sugar at Sudi Stadium in Bungoma next Wednesday.  McKinstry said they would leave no stone unturned to garnish their cabinet with both silverware. “Lifting both would be good for us and there is every possibility we might achieve such a feat this season,” he said. K’Ogalo now join the list of top-flight behemoths that have cruised to the next stage of the competition KCB advanced to the final 16 of the  Cup with a 1-0 win over Michael Olunga Football Academy (MOFA) at Gusii Stadium on Saturday. Kennedy Owino scored the game-winning goal, propelling the bankers past the recalcitrant lads who fought tooth and nail until the final whistle. Bidco United survived a late scare at Kericho Stadium to beat Lions FC 3-2 on penalties following a two-all deadlock in ordinary time. The rest of the KPL behemoths experienced a field day in the competition.  Tusker, the reigning KPL champions, made light work of Berlin FC with an emphatic 7-0 win to advance to the next round of the competition. Soldiers, Ulinzi Stars of Nakuru defeated Kajiado with goals from Enosh Ochieng and Boniface Muchiri.  Cliff Nyakeya and Maxwell Otieno were each on target as AFC Leopards beat Zetech Titans 2-0 at Kasarani Stadium to book a slot in the last 16.