Trade Cabinet Secretary (CS) Moses Kuria has said that he has a duty to speak on behalf of Kenyan traders and manufacturers after China Square reopens. Speaking on Wednesday, Kuria said that China Square is for middle-class people in the country. "This China Square. Is there a matatu stage there, there is none? So who is shopping at China Square? These are people driving; the middle class of this country," he said. "That middle-class man who is shopping there has paid fees for his children, but that real hustler of Dandora struggling to sell fish does not know where the next meal is going to come from." He added that the reopening of China Square is a middle-class conspiracy. The CS said that he has a duty to People to look upon him as CS to give them direction upon which the country should take. Kuria said that Kenya's local manufacturers and traders are supporting the economy despite them not having a voice on social media. "Hustlers are not on Twitter or TikTok, they cannot be quoted on TV, while some of the middle-class men in this country make noise online," he said. "This is not helpful to our country. I have a duty to speak for the Gikomba and Kamukunji businessman who has no voice on Twitter." The CS sentiments come days after China Square reopened its doors after a temporary closure due to a dispute with Kuria. In a statement released on Monday by the Kenya Chinese Chamber of Commerce, several engagements with the Kenyan government have been made in order to allow China Square to continue operating in Kenya. “The Kenya Chinese Chamber of Commerce welcomes the good news on the resumption of operations of China Square following several engagements between the Kenya Government and the Chinese Community in Kenya to find an amicable solution to the stalemate,” the statement read. “The Chamber looks forward to an equal and fair treatment of all businesses across the board to ensure a conducive business environment for all and promote cordial relations based on mutual trust and benefit.” People look to me to give them direction upon which the country should take.