Nairobi spectators will be in focus when the 2023 WRC Safari Rally Kenya gets underway from June 22-25. The Organizing Committee led by Safari legend Carl “Flash” Tundo has made a few changes to the 2023 itinerary which will see world-beaters endure the challenging Kenyan adventure, arguably the world’s toughest. Clerk of the Course Gurvir Bhabra revealed that the start of the event has been moved from the traditional Kenyatta International Convention Centre (KICC) to Uhuru Park which has the capacity to accommodate more spectators. “The Kenya Kwanza government wants to promote a Bottoms Up Safari, and as such, the change of Ceremonial Start from KICC to Uhuru is a deliberate move to take Safari back to the people,” he said. Uhuru Park has previously been used as the Safari’s Super Special Stage during the days of the FIA African Rally Championship. Gurvir also announced that the mileage for the Geothermal stage will be increased from the initial 11.6km to 13.80km. What's more, Kedong is being scaled down from 31.25km to 30.65km with the removal of the 600 meters of the “Fesh Fesh” dust stretch. Kedong has since been adjudged by enthusiasts and teams as the toughest stage of WRC Safari given the tough volcanic ash soil terrain which tends to get softer when proceedings of the rally wear on. The Oserian stage has been increased from 17.81km to 18.33km as organisers have moved the start further up to avoid the “Fesh Fesh” dust. With its naturally beautiful Lake Elmenteita (SS 9/12 —15.08kms) will serve as a unique backdrop, Elementieta will serve as the Live TV Stage on Saturday to accommodate the need to allow Live TV crews the opportunity to capture the action in all its picturesque glory. Running as the day's second and fifth stage - Elmenteita will no doubt present iconic imagery with its grey volcanic dust, lush lakeside vegetation and the promise of a clear blue sky reflected on the Lake surface dotted with flocks of pink Flamingos. SS 10/13 Sleeping Warrior (31.04kms) will for the umpteenth time serve as a key feature of the event. It crisscrosses the natural plain before a rocky finish. This year the short, sharp Malewa Stage (SS 14/17— 11.00 km) has been brought back – running slightly differently from the 2021 stage. This time, Malewa will have a new start and a new finish that once again takes crews through some technically demanding stage miles that climb and dip over abrasive surfaces with some sharp square lefts and rights to add to the excitement and challenge of the final day of the Rally. The famous Hell’s Gate stage with its fast ascents and descents runs as the third and final competitive stage of the Safari Rally on the final day. With perhaps the most scenic backdrop of any of the Power Stages on the World Rally Championship, Hells Gate is going to sign off the 2023 Safari Rally on a high. With the finish line alongside the picturesque Fisher’s Tower, Hell’s Gate presents a great opportunity for spectators to get close to the action on the final day and watch the battle for the Power Stage and valuable championship points mid-way through the event. 