The streets of Voi municipality in Taita Taveta county will be renamed to reflecting the heritage of the region, ward reps have said. The county assembly on Wednesday passed a motion on naming of the municipality streets and roads. The motion compels the county government to engage relevant stakeholders and review all road names with a view of changing those that have names that are irrelevant to residents. They want names of the heroes and heroines of Taita Taveta and renowned places across the country. The motion, which was moved by nominated MCA Peter Shambi, will further see streets of other major towns of Mwatate, Wundanyi and Taveta renamed to bear local names. “Naming of roads, streets, old and new markets is a traditional mode of honouring our heroes, heroines and places in Kenya. This motion seeks to introduce such naming in our county municipalities,” Shambi said. He said Kenyans have for years named places and roads in all towns and villages across the country in ways that bequeaths honour and history. "We have heroes and heroines within our region that we can name streets after them. That is one of the many ways of honouring them," he said. Some of the proposed names include Taita warrior Mwangeka wa Malowa, Taveta warrior Melekinoi, former legislators Darius Mbela (Wundanyi) and Eliud Mwamunga (Voi). Others are Silvia Manga who used to prepare meals for Kenya's first President Mzee Jomo Kenyatta and friends at Kenyatta caves during the colonial era. Musicians Fadhili Williams of the Malaika song fame and Freshly Mwamburi are also in the list of proposed names. Kaloleni MCA Azhar Din said naming the roads will be an opportunity to ensure all impassable roads are fixed. He said the move will further help preserve the rich history and tradition of the region. This comes even as the county government prepares to create two more municipalities in Voi and Taveta. The formation of the new administrative units through the urban areas and cities Act will further attract infrastructural development financing from the World Bank under the Kenya Urban Support Programme. Din said the support will speed up urbanisation of the two towns hence complementing the efforts of the County government to improve services delivery.     -Edited by SKanyara