Promoted Nondies are keen to bolster their squad ahead of Kenya Cup return next season. Nondies made a quick return to the top flight after one season in the Championship, prevailing 24-6 against Kisumu in the second-tier final in a season where they suffered just one loss (7-0 to Impala) in 13 matches. In a wide-ranging interview, head coach Oliver Cullumn said they will have to create depth, especially in the front row and flyhalf positions for what promises to be a competitive Kenya Cup season. “We will have to strengthen in the forward pack, the two-second rows and our half-back combinations if we are to compete against the big boys like Kabras, Menengai Oilers and KCB,” said Cullumn. He added that a proper pre-season will be key in their quest for a top-six finish at the end of the forthcoming campaign. "Our planning for next season has to be spot on. We don't want to be up and down on the table. We want to place ourselves firmly in the Kenya Cup. Our pre-season has to be good if we are going to be competitive in the top tier,” added Cullumn. However, he ruled big-money signings, adding that they cannot afford to offer big salaries and wages but can offer experience through the club's rich history — spanning over 100 years. “We are a community club and we don't have the deep pockets like the big three but our experience and long history is what we boost of when we talk to players who want to join us," he added. Meanwhile, Cullum has hailed his players' mentality after a successful season in the second tier. "Credit to the boys. They played exceptionally in the Championship, losing just one match. Our target was simple at the start of the season, to win the Championship and get back to the Kenya Cup,” he added The core of the team that did duty in the championship is expected to stay, including skipper Steven Odhiambo, Eric Shimoli, Brian Sinei, Calvin Sheunda, Alvin Marube and Tony Fidens. Nondies are Kenya's most successful rugby club with 17 Kenya Cup titles and 25 Enterprise Cup crowns.