The Agriculture and Food Authority (AFA) has said it will partner with the police to arrest those found transporting avocadoes using open pick-ups. Director of horticultural crops directorate in AFA Benjamin Tito who was speaking during a sensitization forum in Murang’a County said mishandling the fruits while they are being transported from the farms to pack-houses compromises their quality. This, he said, breaches the crops and horticultural regulations of 2022 that provide that they should be well packaged in crates and transported in well-designed vehicles to maintain their quality. He noted that the country is ranked first in the African continent in the production and exportation of quality avocados. He said this reputation could however be easily destroyed if the quality is compromised, resulting in the loss of international buyers. Tito reiterated that the exportation of poor-quality fruits would negatively affect farmers’ earnings as they would fetch reduced prices. “We are asking security officers to help us stop this trend by mounting roadblocks and arresting those found using pickups to transport the fruits." “Transporters should also have proof of the source of the fruits to curtail farm-gate theft of the fruits,” he said. Farmers in Murang’a County, the largest avocado-producing county, have been lamenting over the theft of fruits in their farms which has forced them to watch their farms in turns. Tito said the theft has resulted in the harvesting of immature fruits that sometimes find their way to the international market. He urged stakeholders to ensure the vice is nipped before it causes major damages that may reduce the country’s earnings. Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Avocado Society of Kenya Ernest Muthomi said Kenya is renowned for its supply of quality avocados. “This reputation is however under threat due to increased theft of avocados in farms. We all need to work together to stop this menace,” Muthomi said. County Commissioner Karuku Ngumo pledged to work with relevant government agencies to stem avocado thefts and crack down on those transporting them wrongly. He said the problem has been raised by farmers in the recent past and asked all those entrusted to transport the fruits to get legal permits from the relevant bodies. “These issues have been raised by farmers recently. Those transporting the fruits should ensure they acquire legal permits from the relevant bodies,” he said. He further underscored the need for buyers to ensure they conform to the laid down rules and regulations that govern the sector to avoid having a brush with the law. The Chairman of Murang’a Avocado Cooperative Union John Mwaniki noted that avocado has risen to one of the country’s major income earners and that it should be guarded. He urged the government to crack down on illegal buyers whom he said have opened collection centres in avocado growing zones to ensure that only mature fruits are harvested.