Champions Kabras face Quins at the Kakamega showground today as the Kenya Cup enters the semifinal stage The other semifinal pits former champions KCB against Menengai Oilers at the Lion's Den in Ruaraka. The sugar millers finished the group phase unbeaten and will be aiming for their eighth consecutive final appearance since being promoted to the top flight in 2015. Kabras coach Carlos Katwya will go for his tried and tested combinations for today's showdown. Up front, the tactician will start Hillary Mwanjilwa and Kenya Simbas internationals Eugene Sifuna and Ephraim Oduor in the front row. Hillary Odhiambo and Bryan Juma will be the locks while skipper Dan Sikuta, George Nyambua and Jeanson Musoga form a formidable back row. In the backs, Dan Angwech starts at the scrum and will be paired alongside Jone Kubu at flyhalf with Walter Okoth and Malik Habil in midfield as South African Ntabeni Dukisa, Arnold Orege and Lameck Ambetsa complete the back three. When the two sides clashed in the group phase, Kabras won 27-12 and the South African tactician expects us to close the contest. "It's a big game! This is knockout rugby and we know they are a quality side who pushed us close during the season and we relish the challenge,"  observed Katywa Quins have made three changes for the match. Skipper Mike Onsando returns to beef up the forwards. Cornelius Mukoro starts at flyhalf in place of Lucky Dewald while Brian Oyiengo comes in the wing, replacing John Mark Owiti At Lion's Den in Ruaraka, visitors Menengai Oilers will be gunning for revenge after a 62-15 mauling at the hands of the bankers last month. At this same stage last year, Oilers edged KCB 24-17 to romp into the final. Coach Gibson Weru said they have learned their lessons from the huge loss and were expecting a different game. "I'm expecting a close contest. It's an opportunity to correct the errors we had when we last met and so it's going to be a competitive contest,” noted Weru KCB assistant coach Dennis Mwanja said his charges are fired up for the encounter as they look at playing in the final for the fifth time in six years, 