Makini Schools has announced the construction of state-of-the-art sports facilities at their Ngong Road campus, the first of its kind for the group of schools. The sports facilities expected to be ready by April 2023, will be equipped with a variety of amenities ranging from a large multipurpose field, an outdoor gym, a seating capacity of 200 spectators for the middle school, and a mid-sized multipurpose playing field, a basketball court and changing rooms for the Cambridge school. Open to only Makini Schools students, the highly anticipated sports facility is set to improve the students' experience and ensure they enjoy every minute of being in school. Additionally, the facility will contribute to the growth of the sports industry by fostering and developing the existing local talent while ensuring that the students have integrated and varied skills. Commenting on the investment, Horace Mpanza, the regional managing director at Makini Schools, said the facility will contribute to the holistic development of its learners. “We know that inside the classroom, our learners are getting the best but we also need to have this outside the classroom as well. There are critical life skills that children can develop whilst doing sports,” Horace said. Makini Schools’ commitment to building skills outside the classroom enables it to boast as one of the schools representing Kenya at the annual United World Games in Austria and Germany. Last year, the Makini high school swimmers clinched the top positions at the 2022 Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Association (KSSSA) National games and also scooped 51 medals at the Lifetime Age Group Development swimming series. “Makini learners have over the years continued to be competitive in sports and have represented the country nationally and internationally.” “Our goal is to ensure that this facility will enhance their ability to participate, train and therefore access more opportunities that would lead them to a happy and successful path in whichever sport they wish to excel in,” added Horace. In accordance with Article 56 of the constitution of Kenya, 2010 on minorities and marginalized groups, the facility will also be accessible to Persons with Disabilities (PWDs). 