Smoking is the action or habit of inhaling and exhaling the smoke of tobacco by sucking on the end of a lit cigarette, cigar, pipe. Over the years smoking has become really popular with adults, teenagers, and even shocking cases of minors indulging in this activity. Why does it seem to be so addictive? What is causing the spike in cigarette sales? And Why should we be concerned over the rising numbers of cigarette users? Cigarettes contain a highly addictive chemical substance called nicotine, which is present in tobacco. On inhaling, Nicotine is absorbed into the bloodstream, where it makes its way to the brain. Within seconds, nicotine causes the release of dopamine in the brain, which gives people a good feeling. Over time, the brain begins to crave that feeling from nicotine and people need to use more and more tobacco to get that same good feeling, thus addiction creeps in. Cigarettes contain a host of chemicals estimated to be about 5000 of them. Among these, are cancer-causing chemicals such as Acetaldehyde which is produced when tobacco additives (such as sugars, sorbitol, and glycerol) are burned and released in cigarette smoke, Arsenic which is present in the tobacco, and Benzene which is released in the smoke when tobacco is burned. Effects of cigarettes on the human body Tar, a compound present in cigarettes coats the tooth enamel damaging the tooth and leading to decay. Smoking also damages the nose's nerve endings thus reducing one's ability to smell. Inside the airways and lungs, The Cilia(tiny hair-like structures, whose job is to move microbes and debris up and out of the airways) are damaged predisposing one to acute bronchitis or asthma Smoking also leads to increased exposure to heart attacks and strokes. Cigarette smoking can cause cancer almost anywhere in the body. Cigarette smoking causes cancer of the mouth and throat, esophagus, stomach, colon, rectum, liver, pancreas, voicebox (larynx)urinary bladder, and cervix, and causes acute myeloid leukemia among others Not only does smoking impact your health, but it can also impact the health of those around you through secondhand smoke exposure. Secondhand smoke can cause many of the same health problems as smoking. If you are a smoker, quitting smoking is the best thing you can do for your health. There are many resources available to help you quit, including nicotine replacement therapy, medications, and support groups. It's never too late to quit smoking and improve your health. Doctor Martha Maghanga had to say this on smoking "Smoking has really major implications on heart health, if you want to protect your heart health then do not smoke any drug of any kind."