As the drought continues to ravage many parts of Mwea, residents from Murinduko ward have protested the encroachment of a 20-acre piece of wetland by a private developer. They said riparian land in Gataka village has water from a spring and brooks with a stream cutting across the land which has been serving the residents with water for domestic use and farming. The water, according to residents, has for decades also served  two neighbouring public schools namely Karuangi and Icagi. With its encroachment, the residents said they have not had access to clean water for over 10 years as the alleged land grabber has been farming on the marshy grounds. The individual is said to have erected a semi-permanent structure within the land and has allegedly hired goons to watch over the grounds. They further accused a former administrator of colluding with the individual to terrorise residents who trespass the area. Antony Muriithi, a resident called on the government to speedily investigate the matter and take legal action. He said some of the residents who own land near the disputed area have had to be evicted by the investor. Kirinyaga county assembly environment committee Wednesday visited the site where it assessed the land and engaged the affected community. Committee’s chairperson Timothy Kariuki pledged that the county will play its part and ensure it engages other relevant government agencies in bid to reclaim the marshy area. He said the committee will do its due investigations on how the individual possessed the land. Kariuki added that it is illegal for any individual to purport to own, settle or carry out farming  activities on a riparian ground and as such, the case at hand will not be tolerated. “It is unfortunate to hear that the individual has denied the surrounding communities access to clean water all courtesy of some farming activities which the individual has started within the water source. We will take the necessary steps and use the power that has been bestowed upon us to reclaim this land.” The chairperson further said there is need for the government to establish a dam that will serve residents and the larger part of the Mwea East. Area MCA Charles Nyamu condemned harassment meted on his people as he questioned how the individual acquired a title deed for a land that is not supposed to be legally owned by any individual. He further condemned  the former local administrator who has been assisting the individual in allegedly harassing residents who access the land terming it as unfortunate. “Many of the locals who attempt to pass through the land have either been arrested, beaten up or subjected to other sorts of harassment. It is unfortunate that instead of defending the locals, the former administrator has taken sides with the enemy of the people to oppress them.” The MCA said it remains illegal for any individual to possess the marshy land and as such, the land grabber should prepare to exit. “From the history we have gathered, this area has remained un-possessed and has greatly helped the community have direct access to clean water for farming and domestic use. It should remain that way and no one should purport to own the land by way of buying it.” Kirinyaga county of environment Ezra Nganga called on the county executive to hasten the process of submitting  to the county assembly a list of the names of officials to serve in the county environment committee and thereafter gazette the committee. He added that with a committee in place, final orders made by the committee will be legal and will be implemented on the said individual. Upon receiving the names of the committee from the executive, the Kariuki pledged to fast track  the assembly’s  process of  passing the  names to enable them to hit the ground running.