Migori town was on Monday engulfed in anti-government demonstrations led by opposition supporters ahead of a regional summit. Angry residents carrying twigs, empty sufurias and cooking sticks converged around Migori town bridge which they blocked using boulders. As the crowd swelled, police stood by as demonstrators provoked them to lob teargas. "We are out of the streets to call out the high cost of living and inflation," Eric Opany, county ODM youth leader said. The busy road connecting Kenya and Tanzania was blocked as vehicles and motorists chose an alternative route. Jittery business people also closed shop fearing a spate of looting. The demonstrators marched towards the Migori county commissioner's office in the town. "Migori is expected to host a regional meeting of 14 counties for three days starting tomorrow and we thought it will boost our businesses but we are afraid with these demos we won't get much," Anne Juma, a trader said. "The main venue of the event will be at Migori County Stadium which is in the epicentre of the demonstrations, we are hopeful the event will go on." Traders are afraid the demonstrations will worsen ahead of March 20, the deadline by ODM leader Raila Odinga. Migori is to host the eleventh summit of the Lake Region Economic Block (LREB) summit from March 14-16. The summit cover counties in the entire Nyanza and Western region and part of Rift Valley(Kericho, Bomet and Trans Nzoia.) Last week, LREB chief executive officer Victor Nyagaya and Governor Ochillo Ayacko met and said they expected a good turnout. They said the 14 counties should leverage their potential for energy production for both domestic and industrial use. Nyagaya stressed on the need for infrastructural development, which he said is a pillar to attaining the objectives of LREB. The CEO who was in Migori for preparations for the summit said among their achievements in the health sector include the drone medicine deliveries system in Kisumu. The technology-driven initiative, he said, is used to reach remote parts. transporting drugs. Ayacko expressed optimism about unlocking water transport within the Lake Victoria region. He added that matters blue economy, climate change and sustainable development will dominate the upcoming event.