Boomerang coach Kevin Manono is confident his boys will get results in their three Kenya Handball Federation (KHF) league matches this weekend. He maintained that they have prepared well for the busy schedule. Boomerang start off their busy weekend with a tough match against unbeaten and second-placed Ulinzi who have 28 points on Saturday. They then return the following day with a date against Black Mamba who are fourth and Kenyatta University who are sixth Sunday. The trio is all eyeing a top-six finish and a ticket to the Super Cup. “We have a real mountain to climb. But we have trained well lately and this gives us hope in the three tough matches,” said Manono, whose team lies in 13th on the log with five wins in the 19-team league. “Our training now is not like it was when the season started. We are working hard and everything has gotten better. The chemistry in the team is good and we will surely give them a run for their money.” Another team that must come out of the blocks hard is Strathmore University. The students are fifth having lost two matches and play Thika, who succumbed  32-26 to General Service Unit. “We have been trying to work on a few things both offensively and defensively. We must be prepared for every match coming our way if we have to finish in a respectable position,” offered students' coach Peter Mwathi. GSU, who also lost 32-20 to reigning champions and unbeaten National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB), tackle unbeaten Ulinzi in what will be a fiercely contested duel. Bottom-placed Young City, who lost their two matches going down 26-20 to Technical University of Kenya and 36-28 to Spartan return to meet Thika, who are targeting maximum points. In the women's match-ups, Net Navigators play Ulinzi Sharks. The soldiers' second match of the day will be against Rising Star who also have a date with New Hope. On Sunday, Sharks will move close to the top with a win against New Hope, and NCPB will meet Net Navigators who close their three-match week with a fixture against Daystar University.