Who will win the 2023 Magical Kenya Open (MKO)? That's the million-dollar question purists have been asking ahead of the much anticipated Thursday morning tee-off. The diverse field of pros lining up for action at the Par-71 Muthaiga Golf Club course is what should add the much-needed zest to East Africa's premier event. Some of the big names to watch this week in Nairobi are defending champion Ashun Wu of China, South African Justin Harding, Robert MacIntyre of Scotland, Adrian Otaegui of Spain, and Frenchman Antoine MacIntyre is one of the most prominent rising stars in European golf at the moment. After a series of emphatic finishes at the 2019 Betfred British Masters, Made in Denmark, and Porsche European Open, he finally got into the winner's circle for the first time on the DP World Tour in 2020. MacIntyre's victory came at the Cyprus Showdown at Aphrodite Hills,  thanks to four birdies over the final six holes. He won his 2nd title at the 2022 DS Automobiles Italian Open. The Kenya Open title remains elusive to local players but it will be interesting to see what's up their sleeves with all eyes trailed on veteran long hitter Dismas India, Greg Snow, Thika man Simon Ngige, Justus Madoya and Samuel Njoroge, all of whom have graced the DP World Tour. Kenya's CJ Wangai and Zimbabwean pro-Robson Chinhoi are in the draw after the withdrawal of Dutchman Daan Huizing and Andrew Johnston of England. Kenya had initially been handed 8 slots and two for regional players as per Safari Tour qualifications. Wangai was the ninth-placed Kenyan and Chinhoi was the third-best regional player on the Safari Tour Order of Merit, hence their inclusion into the iconic event. What this means is that the field of local players increased from 8 to 10. Regional players will now be three with Chinhoi joining compatriot Visitor Mapwanya and Uganda's Ronald Rugumayo. Last year, Wu Ashun became the first Asian golfer to win the Magical Kenya Open and the first Chinese player to win a DP World Tour event in Africa. Wu entered the final day at Muthaiga four shots off the lead but never looked back after making four birdies in a row from the seventh, signing for a closing 65 to celebrate his fourth DP World Tour title. The victory would prove instrumental in his qualifying for the season-ending DP World Tour Championship. Muthaiga Country Club, known as the home of golf, has hosted this event more than 40 times but this will be the second time to host a DP World Tour (previously known as the European Tour) after having run as a Challenge Tour event in the past years. The Kenya Open celebrates its 54th edition this week at Muthaiga and the fourth time since the tournament joined the DP World Tour schedule in 2019. The event was first held in 1967 before it was staged on the Safari Circuit between 1977 and 1990, becoming part of the European Challenge Tour in 1991. Over the years, it has been won by European golf greats Seve Ballesteros and Ian Woosnam, while in recent times it has provided a springboard for other players to enjoy further success on golf’s biggest stages. 