Mugithi singer DJ Fatxo has detailed the events that happened after the death of interior designer Geoffrey Mwathi. Speaking at a press conference, DJ Fatxo said that he was the one who contacted Mwathi's family to inform them of his death. "I went with Jeff to my house and then I immediately left with three ladies then later came back after a few hours finding that Jeff was not in the house and the others were there, I am the one who went with them to report to police that Jeff is missing," he said. "There is this issue going on that I did not mourn the death of Jeff. I reached out to his family , I'm the one who actually contacted them and told them that Jeff is no more. I told them I would have supported them to bury their son." DJ Fatxo said he was forced to seek his mother's help after failing to get feedback from Mwathi's family. "I told my mother, can you please call one of the family members and request them to accept our help," he said. "Maybe the report did not reach Jeff's mother, but we reached out to the extend that my mother called them." The Mugithi singer said he is willing to cooperate with the Directorate of Criminal Investigations to unearth the truth. He said that Mwathi sold shoes and did interior designs for him and that they have known each other for two years. DJ Fatxo is a person of interest in the case after the young interior designer fell to his death while visiting the singer. It is alleged that Mwathi fell from the 12th floor of Redwood Apartments along Thika Road where the DJ lives. The circumstances under which he died are still unclear. It is said he was with a group of friends partying. Reports show the victim had spent the day with the popular DJ. Detectives from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, homicide department visited the apartment on Friday. This was after a directive from the Interior Cabinet Secretary Kithure Kindiki instructing DCI Mohamed Amin to send a homicide team from the DCI headquarters to thoroughly investigate the incident and take the necessary action.