Plans are at an advanced stage to have Kisumu’s Hippo Point public beach land given to a private developer to build a five-star hotel. The 10 acres piece of land will be leased out to the investor to execute the project through a public-private partnership agreement. According to a document seen by Star which contains the details of the proposed project, the lease will last 40 years. The proposed project's details will be presented to the county cabinet chaired bY governor Anyang Nyong'o for approval in 30 days. The project is expected to commence by 30 August at the onset of the first quarter of the next financial year 2023/24 according to the documents seen by the Star. The City of Kisumu has transformed into an intermediary international City in Africa. According to the City’s new geophysical Plan ( The Local Physical and Land Use Development plan), Dunga and Hippo point areas have been listed as the waterfronts where Marina Hotels, yachts and jetties will be developed. Kisumu city manager Abala Wanga on Thursday told the Star that these are the initial development potentials intended to transform the City to face the lake. "In order for the City to realize the full potential of its waterfront, there is a need for local and international governmental institutions to avoid the tradition of underutilization of public land and lease out available land to potential business investors to transform the City," Abala said He pointed out that under the new geophysical plan, the Dunga area has public and private lands which are underutilized and requires immediate development for economic gains. Abala revealed that Kisumu County Government plans to lease out the Hippo point Land measuring over 10 Acres to the investor for the development of a 5-star Marina Hotel with a convention Centre. He said the proposed hotel will consist of 150 rooms, a presidential suite, several lounge bars, restaurants, a convention hall, an exhibition Centre, a marina, jetties, internal gardens and yachts. "The expectation of the project is that leasing out the land will yield a modern Marina hotel with all the appendages highlighted in the objective of the project," he said It is envisaged that the Marina hotel, once complete will provide employment opportunities to over 10,000 city residents. "It will transform Kisumu to a regional convention city equivalent to Kigali, Rwanda and Cape Town, South Africa," the manager said. He further noted that the project will improve local and international tourism in Kisumu City. It will also increase revenue not only from the hotel but from all the waterfront investors. "This project will attract more investors along the waterfront and will fully lay the foundation for turning the City to face the lake initiative," Abala added. He said that the true position is that the City, through the County Government lacks the required resources to develop such a facility along the lake. It is against this background, he said that Kisumu City, on behalf of the Kisumu County Government, will lease out Hippo Point Land for the project and agree on rates and payable rents. "According to the agreement, the County government will provide land and the investor develops the hotels. The parties shall agree on the rates and rent revenues. The parties shall agree on the environmental management plan for the project," he added. "The parties shall agree on the period of lease which is proposed to be 40 years. The parties shall explore all the required policy and legal implications before agreeing on the lease," Abala said.