Turkana Woman MP Cecilia Ngitit has revealed that she is among those affected by banditry in the North Rift. She said her dowry, which included large herds of cattle, was taken away by bandits. "I'm a victim of banditry Madam Speaker. I was wedded traditionally in Turkana. Herds of cattle that were given to my kinsmen, not even a single one can be traced in our yards. It went to West Pokot," she said. In reference to her plight, Ngitit noted that if it happened to someone of her stature, worse has been happening to the citizens. She was tabling a motion of adjournment pursuant to standing order 33(1), to discuss rising insecurity cases in the North Rift counties on Thursday. The session was moderated by  Kitui South MP Rachel Nyamai. In February, Interior CS Kindiki Kithure gazetted areas he referred to as dangerous and disturbed due to banditry attacks. They include Samburu and Laikipia, the others are West Pokot, Elgeyo Marakwet and Baringo. Ngitit pointed out that some of the residents in the counties had not only lost their cattle and lives but also their land. "It is no longer cattle rustling as people would say. The conflict in the North Rift has become a land issue," she said. The legislator further said the region was also being raided by bandits from neighbouring countries including South Sudan, Ethiopia and Uganda. She regretted that despite the deployment of security agencies in the area, schools were still being burnt. Appearing before the Senate's National Cohesion committee on Wednesday, Kindiki said the government has made good 'progress' in the ongoing security operation in the North Rift. He added that the government has deployed all its best machinery and manpower to curb the menace. "We have made a lot of progress. And we are not in a hurry. We may be there for a few months," he said. The CS disclosed that while the government aims to silence guns and restore safety and security in the areas, security deployment will be a permanent feature in the region. "The deployment is going to be permanent," Kindiki said.