The battle of Artificial Intelligence has rocked the world, and the emergence of ChatGPT and Google's Bard might change the dynamics of Journalism. Has it come as a destruction or innovation? I focus on ChatGPT, and experience if it can write an article or answer questions within a second as it has been praised for. First off, ChatGPT is an artificial Intelligence chatbot which was launched in November 2022. The chatbot is prompted by the registered user to answer specific questions, discussion and at some point, students have used the AI to do their assignment. Following its popularity in the county, and as a tech head, I have been using the chatbot for knowledge and to experience it as most people online after successfully registering in the system. To get an article written by the Chatbot, I asked it to note key information about Interior Cabinet Secretary Kithure Kindiki, and the response received needs some fact-checking. ChatGPT said Kindiki was appointed by Uhuru Kenyatta in 2020 which is not the case. In 2020, Kindiki was the Deputy Senate Speaker and was appointed to the Interior docket in 2022 by President William Ruto. In matters of entertainment, I asked the chatbot to send Sauti Sol’s – Sura yako lyrics and it proved that it can deliver, similarly, I asked it about Sauti Sol the band and every information I receive was correct according to interviews that the band had attended in the past. The response came in at an average of 10 seconds per question. “They are widely regarded as one of the most successful and influential musical groups to come out of Kenya in recent years,” ChatGPT responded. However, ChatGPT is not up to date, in another question I posed to the Chatbot asking who the President of Kenya is, it responded by saying its knowledge cut off as of September 2021. "Please note that my information may not be up-to-date, as I am an AI language model and do not have access to real-time information," the response read. China Square has been trending in Kenya.  Several pieces of information have been published on news outlets regarding the outlet, and I was curious about what ChatGPT thinks of matters revolving around China Square. Does it know that it has been closed down? In my quest to know whether the Chatbot responds to guesswork, ChatGPT said there are instances where its responses are not entirely accurate or do not fully address the question being asked. "This could happen if the question is unclear, ambiguous, or too complex for my current level of knowledge," it said. As more AI tools will come up shortly, before making a final decision to fully depend on them, one needs to do more research about the topics before sorting to use the chatbots fully. In February, OpenAI announced it will offer subscription options to its users amounting from Sh2500 per month. According to the BBC,  subscribers will get access to the platform even at peak times when it can be hard to log onto, and also "priority access" to new features. "It currently costs the firm a small amount of money every time the chatbot is used."