Football Kenya Federation chief executive officer, Barry Otieno, has confirmed that the nine points taken away from Kayole Starlets were a result of the games they forfeited in the Kenya Women's Premier League. Otieno criticized Kayole Starlets' head coach Joshua Sakwa for claiming that the federation had treated them unfairly. He was emphatic that FKF strictly adhered to the constitution in coming to their decision. "Until Kayole Starlets broke the law, no one had broken the guidelines that had been put in place back in 2019," Otieno said. Anyone who claims we are wrongly enforcing the law is misrepresenting the situation. All clubs received handbooks with those laws," he added. Otieno explained that Kayole's match against Kangemi was forfeited because they did not provide the security requested by the host team. Kayole's head coach Joshua Sakwa confirmed the development in a separate interview. "For Kangemi, we had no choice but to own the mistakes because police officers never arrived on time and there are rules that we must abide by," Sakwa said. Due to the team's absence, the games against Wadadia at Mumias Complex and Bunyore Starlets at Mumboha Grounds were also forfeited. Otieno warned Kayole that they risked demotion if they dished out another walkover. "They must make sure they play all the remaining matches. If they give out three walkovers, it's automatic relegation, and they have given out two already." The club currently place at the bottom of the log. Sakwa explained to the club that the team's financial crisis was a big factor in their bad performance in the just-completed KWPL first leg. He claimed the club had made strong signings at the start of the league to compete for the championship. "The financial situation has caused several players to leave. Some of them are breadwinners to their families, others are single mothers who need food for their kids, so holding them at the moment was hard,” he noted. The club has only been playing home games and matches within the Nairobi region. The club has only participated in local Nairobi matches and at home. The tactician said the large migration of players during the financial crisis, forced them to the academy side, which is presently competing in the regional league. "For the just finished KWPL round one, we have only been fighting to survive, but we hope to pull ourselves out of the relegation zone," he stated.