Ulinzi Warriors will jump to the top of the Kenya National Basketball League table with a win against lowly Zetech University Titans at the Ulinzi Sports Complex, Langata on Saturday. The soldiers are second behind leaders Equity Bank's Hawks on goal difference with the two giants having garnered 34 points from 19 games. They have each lost four games as the race to the top gets tighter. Youngsters Churchill Odhiambo and Elisha Odhiambo have lately come out big for the soldiers and with deadly Eric Mutoro still in the mood to shoot three-pointers, Uinzi remain favourite for two points. The relegation-threatened campus lads are tenth on the log having won only two of their 17 matches played so far. They have bagged 25 points and are ahead of the University of Nairobi Terrorist and the bottom Africa Nazarene University (ANU). Tony Okol and Moses Alier's efforts have pushed Umoja away from relegation and the duo will do the donkey work again when they play the visiting Lakeside. The Kisumu side are ninth with 25 points. Lakeside captain Sila Awuor know the team face a big task in their two remaining matches, but they have trained well for two weeks and will give it their best shot. “We lost two close games to Ulinzi and Equity Bank the past two weeks and it has put us in a really bad situation. We are coming to play Umoja in Nairobi after which we will have one more game to go.” Offered Awuor. The only women's match on Sunday will see Equity Bank Hawks move two points ahead of second-placed Strathmore University Swords with a win against Africa Nazarene University Panthers. Hawks, who have Betty Kananu in top form are brimming with confidence after a good weekend outing. They won 85-38 in Kisumu against Lady Bucks and 85-45 in Eldoret over Eldonets. Strathmore University 'Blades' coach Tony Ochieng has his eyes set on a top-four finish. He has a date against the eleventh-placed University of Nairobi Terrorists, who are not sitting pretty. UoN push for safety was jolted by Umoja who drubbed them 73-52 last weekend and they must show they can come back.