A section of ODM officials from Alego Usonga has petitioned governor James Orengo and his deputy William Oduol to work in unity for the sake of the development of the rural county. Speaking at a hotel in Siaya, the party officials led by Oruenjo Umidha who is the Alego Usonga ODM chairman said they are worried about the relationship between Orengo and his deputy. The officials noted that the young administration may have Its development agenda derailed if the duo doesn't work harmoniously. "We want to see the two leaders working together peacefully. We as the people of Alego Usonga voted overwhelmingly for their ticket and we expect them to remain united like they were during the campaigns," Umidha said. Talk of alleged disunity between governor Orengo and his deputy Oduol has been rife in the county. During the Alego Usonga leaders Forum held at Mwisho Mwisho Hotel in Siaya town, the leaders claimed Oduol was being sidelined by Orengo's administration. They claimed that he had been allegedly stopped from using an official car and was once ejected from a meeting. Paul Waringa who's the Alego Usonga constituency ODM secretary said they have given the two leaders three weeks to iron out their issues. "We have told them to iron out their issues within three months or we resort to mass action," he said. He claimed that there were plans to remove, from the budget, some of the projects within the constituency. The leaders demanded immediate completion of the Sh390 million 20,000 capacity Siaya stadium and the construction of Ogaso Segere Road. The project falls within Alego Usonga. The multi-million stadium project was launched by former governor Cornel Rasanga as one of his legacy projects. Orengo last month inspected the project and noted that it would be commissioned before the end of March. The county's director of communications told the Star he was not aware of any differences between the governor and his deputy. Orengo and Oduol were handed a direct ticket by ODM to contest in the August 9 polls last year. The duo put a spirited campaign in the six sub-counties of Siaya that paid off at the ballot when Orengo and Oduol as deputies defeated UDM candidate for the seat engineer Nicholas Gumbo who had journalist David Ohito as his running mate.