Kwale government is set to roll out special programmes in the fight against crime, drugs and substance abuse in the region. CEC for Sports and Talent Management Francisca Kilonzo said they are ready to launch more livelihoods and income-generating activities for recovering drug addicts to prevent them from jumping back into the vice. Currently, the county offers methadone treatment at the Kombani Rehabilitation Centre to thousands of youths from Kwale and Mombasa counties. Some of the addicts on methadone have been reported to have discontinued their medications because of being idle due to lack of employment. Kilonzo said the livelihood projects will help the fully recovered and recuperating drug addicts enjoy decent lives. "We are planning to start various activities to keep the drug addicts busy, generate income and become resilient to drugs and crime," she said. The county has more than 5,000 drug addicts, some are learners, whose lives have been destroyed through health complications and negative behaviour. The most abused drugs in the Kwale include, marijuana, heroin, tobacco, miraa, muguka and mortuary preservatives. Kilonzo said the livelihood programmes will also support effective reintegration for addicts in the community. She said society is oftentimes, hesitant to accommodate recovering drug addicts and mistreats them. Sometimes harassment results in injuries and death as most former drug addicts are falsely accused of attempted theft. The situation has led many youths to either return to drugs or criminal gangs. The Sports CEC said Kwale county will work with stakeholders to ensure more addicts are rehabilitated, empowered and protected. "We are going to partner with different organisations to save our youths from drugs and improve their lives and wellbeing," she said. "We urge leaders, residents, more NGOs and security agencies to support us in ending the vice." Kilonzo said they are always striving to make the county drug-free and support the youth since they are the backbone of the economy. She said processes are ongoing to open the Ganja La Simba Methadone Centre in Msambweni which is yet to be completed. According to the CEC, the facility will enhance the treatment of addicts and escalate the war on drugs. Kilonzo reaffirmed the county government's commitment to eradicating drugs adding that culprits do not only risk health problems but also jail terms since drugs and substance abuse is illegal in Kenya. Lately, excessive use of drugs among the youth has been linked to an increase in criminal activities in most parts of the county. Drugs have also been linked to the erosion of values and morals. In the past five months, the region reported a high number of juvenile machete-wielding gangs that terrorise residents. Diani, Tiwi, Kombani, Denyenye, Bombo, Kwale town ar the most affected areas. Meanwhile, the county has heightened security to fight drugs and illicit brew. County commissioner Gideon Oyagi said they won't put their guard down until all drug traffickers in the region are arrested. (Edited by Tabnacha O)