Azimio la Umoja leader Raila Odinga has said he will list companies for Kenyans to boycott next week for undermining democracy in the country. Odinga said already he has singled out the telecommunication giant Safaricom for the boycott and his team will add more companies next week to be boycotted by Kenyans. He said next week he and his team will offer more directions on the boycott and add more companies he said have been undermining Kenyans. “We will boycott food companies and media outlets which have been undermining democracy and being misused by the government,” Raila said. He said his call for mass action and demonstrations which will culminate in a rally in Nairobi to march to State House is still on as it is enshrined in the constitution. Odinga said he gave the Ruto government two weeks to tackle runaway inflation, have IEBC servers opened and include all stakeholders in recruiting new commissioners to no appeal. “But has refused to talk and went ahead to gazette a commission for the new IEBC team, we feel he wants to talk directly to Kenyans soon,” he said. His deputy Martha Karua said the constitution said sovereignty lies with the people and since. “Ruto is keen on buying everybody including legislators we will bring to him people he can’t buy.” Wiper Leader Kalonzo Musyoka said mass action was in the constitution and as long as Kenyans are not armed police should not be brutal. “We want to tell Interior Cabinet Secretary Kithure Kindiki that he will not order police officers who are independent, we want to ensure people's sovereignty is respected,” he said. Former Cabinet minister Eugene Wamalwa said as Azimio they belied they won on August 9 and we won't feel threatened after calls for mass action and they “are not afraid of Kindiki.” Former Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya said a few opposition legislators who have jumped ship to Kenya Kwanza will face the wrath of the people. Migori governor Ochillo Ayacko, Siaya governor James Orengo and Kisumu governor Anyang’ Nyong’o said with runaway inflation Kenyans will need an answer from the government. "We want to tell Ruto we have seen worse presidents in Africa and we will not be cowed,” Orengo said. Suna East MP Junet Mohammed said even former Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’I was against them in the last elections and they ended up defending him right now. “We want to tell Kindiki with his shrill voice that we will go for mass action and still defend his rights,” Junet said. Other leaders present included Jubilee Secretary general Jeremiah Kioni, Suna West MP Peter Masara, Awendo MP Walter Owino, Alego Usonga MP Samuel Atandi, Migori Woman Representative Fatuma Mohammed, Migori senator Eddy Oketch among others.