Former Saku MP Hussein Tarry Sasura has officially been sworn in as the new county secretary and head of the public service for Marsabit county. Also sworn into office was the former banker Galgallo Muse Ganale. He is the secretary/ CEO public service board. Their swearing-in follows the vetting and approval for appointments to their respective position by members of the county Assembly. The two were on Tuesday sworn into office by county Attorneys John Behailu and Flevia Gekone in a ceremony witnessed by  Governor  Mohamud Ali at the Jirime hotel in Saku. Speaking after swearing-in, Governor Mohamud Ali congratulated the new county secretary and CEO public service board for their appointments and approval by assembly members. He asked them to serve the people of Marsabit county with dedication and diligence saying he has full confidence in them. "I have full confidence in two gentlemen and I believe they will help us streamline public service," said Governor Mohamud. He thanks the county Assembly members for unanimously approving the two appointees and committed to working closely with them to improve service delivery and achieve the development agenda for the county. He directed the new secretary to improve service delivery claiming that there are some workers who could not account for what they had done in their offices due to laxity. The county boss implored the county employees to go the extra mile in the execution of their work and constantly engage the citizenry to improve service delivery. He said, his administration is committed to ensuring that public servants operate in a professional manner and act with a sense of urgency in the provision of services to the people. "We have our work cut out due to many expectations from the members of the public. Let's concentrate on service delivery to the people," he said He warned lazy staff against sending a delegation of elders to plead on their behalf, maintaining that his administration would only promote the hardworking officers. "There are many people who are qualified and searching for jobs. Those who still think they will continue to earn without working hard would find themselves jobless," he warned The Governor said there was a need for public servants to rededicate themselves to serving the people. "Public officers who exhibit acts of laxity and laziness in the performance of their duties will face the consequences of their actions," he said He called on residents to continue embracing unity, integration and cohesion and shun ethnic and religious differences noting that unity and prosperity are the bedrock of progress and development. The county boss advised farmers to begin preparing their lands for the planting season, even as the weatherman warns of below-average rains during the March-May long rains. "Let us take advantage of the rains by preparing our land to maximize the limited downpour expected during this season," he advised The Governor also promised to distribute relief food to hungry residents saying all deserving people will get their rations. Deputy Governor Solomon Gubo Riwe echoed the governor's calls for improved service delivery, He said Governor Mohamud's administration will not tolerate incompetent individuals derailing county development and service delivery. " You all need to take employment opportunities seriously. We can't keep lazy workers at the expense of other deserving citizens," he said He asked the two appointees to work hard to their expectations as members of the public had a lot of expectations from them. Marsabit county public service board chairman Ambrose Hargura emphasized the need to focus on service delivery to the people saying laxity in public services needs to be addressed. While congratulating the two officers, he said there are a lot of work ahead of them but quickly said the two deserved appointment to the respective office and there are up to the task. The county assembly members present promised to collaborate with the governor to deliver the fruits of devolution. Led by Butiye MCA and Deputy speaker Omar Apicha, they affirmed the assembly's commitment to working in harmony with the executive. He said the two arms of the county government are not in competition but working together to complement each other. "We are one government with two arms. For us to perform, we must cooperate and work together to improve service delivery to the people," they committed.