Laikipia East MP Mwangi Kiunjuri has vowed to sponsor a bill in Parliament to address inequality in revenue share to counties. Kiunjuri said he will push for the amendment of laws guiding the delimitation of the constituency and ward boundaries such that revenue allocated in the future is commensurate with the population. “I will personally sponsor a bill in the national assembly, that is Equal Franchise and Boundaries Review to ensure that now that this exercise is about to happen, these discrepancies must come to an end,” he said. Kiunjuri spoke on Friday at Likii Secondary school in Laikipia East. He said that due to disparity in the cash disbursed and the number of learners needing bursaries, some constituencies are unable to fully sponsor all needy students. “We have counties in this country whereby they are able to pay school fees for their students and even accompaniments while there are others that cannot even afford Sh4,000 for the school feeding programme for one term. This must come to an end,” he said. The former Devolution and Agriculture CS said it’s about time all constitutional issues were addressed even if it calls for a referendum. He said it’s unacceptable that as a democracy, Kenya still has some people enjoying the full benefits of devolution while others are oppressed. “When other students are enjoying free education from secondary to university, others cannot even educate their students even in Form One in a day school.” According to the law, the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission is required to review the names and boundaries of constituencies at intervals of not less than eight years and not more than twelve years. Article 89 of the Constitution states that the boundaries of each constituency shall be such that the number of inhabitants in the constituency is as nearly as possible, equal to the population quota. It says where the number of inhabitants of a constituency is greater or lesser than the population quota, the margin should not be more than 40 per cent for cities and sparsely populated areas and 30 per cent for other areas. “Within the counties themselves, we have violations. You take for example Nyeri, with over 120,000 voters and another constituency with less than 50,000 voters. We need to ensure delimitation is done with fairness,” Kiunjuri said. He said broad-based electoral reforms aimed at enhancing structural fairness and inclusion should be held soonest possible to rectify existing problems. Kiunjuri challenged the Opposition under Raila Odinga’s leadership to abandon their quest for mass action and table their reform proposals including those touching on elections. “Instead of thinking of how we shall collectively push the country forward, they are thinking about how they will storm the streets and throw stones because they want nusu mkate ( share of government),” he said.