Health experts have called for urgent action to eliminate trans fats and in turn, lower the rising burden of non-communicable diseases. Trans fats also known as trans fatty acids are found in foods such as fried foods, baked foods, margarine, red meat and dairy products. They are now calling for concerted efforts and the regional level to ensure relevant East Africa standards on food and agriculture are revised to facilitate the inclusion of (Industrially-made TFAs) iTFA limits in line with the best practices. The International Institute of Legislative Affairs CEO Celine Awuor on Monday said trans fats do not have a major health benefit and are major contributors to cardiovascular diseases such as heart disease, stroke and diabetes. Data shows that NCDs are estimated to cause about 540,000 deaths globally each year. In the East African Community, it is estimated that about 40 per cent of all deaths annually are caused by NCDs. “Regulating trans fats will help to promote non-communicable disease prevention and control by reducing the trans fats in the food supply,” Awuor said. According to the CEO, adopting a regional regulation on trans fats will help to promote NCDs prevention and control in the East African Community by reducing the amount of trans fats in the food supply. “Adopting a regional regulation on trans fats will position the East African Community as a leader in Africa in the fight against non-communicable diseases,” she said. This, she said, will help to raise the profile of the region in Africa and around the world. The World Health Organisation estimates that consumption of iTFA is known to increase the levels of bad cholesterol and as a result can increase the risk of death from any cause by about 34 per cent, coronary heart disease deaths by 28 per cent and coronary heart disease by 21 per cent. The experts are concerned that despite Kenya having the Food, Drugs and Chemical Substance Act Cap 254 (Legal Notice 115 of 2015) law that attempts to regulate iTFA, the law is not implementable as it does not mention specifically the iTFA limits.