The Kenya Forest Service-KFS has signed a deal with the local communities in Lamu towards the preservation and restoration of mangroves in the region. The move will enable for the co-management of the over 64,000 acres of mangrove cover in the county. Over 60% of Kenya’s entire mangrove forest cover lies in Lamu County. This is the first forest management agreement which will see the Pate-Ndau-Awer (PANDAWE) community secure legal management rights of over 39,000 acres of the total mangrove cover while a separate agreement with Lamu Community Forest Association secures an additional 25,000 acres. The whole initiative will be guided by the Participatory Forest Management Plans of (2022-2026). Other partners under the new plan include the Lamu County Government, The Nature Conservancy (TNC), Northern Range Trust (NRT), Kenya Marine and Fisheries Research Institute (KMFRI), Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS), Kenya Forestry Research Institute (KEFRI), Kenya Fisheries Service (KeFS) and Lamu Mangrove Community Associations. Speaking during the official launch at the Lamu Fort Hall on Monday, KFS’s senior assistant director Peter Nduati who represented Chief Conservator Julius Kamau, said the initiative also aims to enhance the protection, restoration, and management of mangroves by communities living adjacent to the forest. “All this, while ensuring benefits to residents of Lamu County, most of whom we are aware depend on the marine environment for their livelihoods,” he said. The move follows the 2019 lifting of the mangrove logging ban in Kenya's five coastal counties, Lamu included, which had been implemented in 2018 following protests by local communities whose livelihoods are tied to mangrove trade. The ban was finally lifted in Lamu County in February 2019 following a successful petition by the community and the county government. Nduati expressed confidence that the move will positively impact conservation efforts of mangrove forest cover in the region. “This will also help in meeting the new national target of 30 percent tree cover by 2050 that was set by the government of Kenya last year,” said Nduati. He however said the KFS holds the overall mandate of ensuring sustainable management and conservation of the Kenyan forests and forest resources for the socio-economic development of the country. “This includes the promotion of community participation in the conservation and management of state forests. Lamu Governor Issa Timamy, who is also the chairperson of the Council of Governor’s Blue Economy Committee pledged his commitment and support to the local communities in implementing the forest plans and agreements. “This includes investing in nature-based solutions or projects for community development and conservation benefits. I believe such plans are critical tools in the conservation of our biodiversity and enhancing livelihoods while ensuring the sustainable use of forests,” said Timamy. The TNC’s Africa Fisheries Strategy Manager, George Maina said the conservancy remains committed to ensuring a resilient Coast, reduced emissions and thriving communities, and marine management grounded in science. James Kairo, the KMFRI’S Chief Scientist and coordinator of the mangrove research program said the organization would provide technical support and resources to ensure the science-based implementation of Mangrove PFMPs and FMAs. The NRT Regional Director in charge of Coast Hassan Yusuf said his organization will support the implementation of the PFMPs to restore, protect and improve the management of mangroves and associated ecosystems in Lamu for biodiversity, livelihood, and climate benefits.