Who will win the Nairobi Provincial Cricket Association (NPCA) T20 Super Division League this weekend? That’s the million-dollar question cricket fans are asking ahead of Saturday’s floodlit final pitting Swamibapa A against Sikh Union A. The match will be played under floodlights at Shree Cutchi Leva Patel Samaj (SCLPS) grounds in Nairobi West on Saturday from 6:30 pm. This is the first time in the history of Kenyan cricket that a major domestic tournament final is being played under the floodlights. Despite being touted as the favourite, Swamibapa have refused to rest on their laurels. Swamis Skipper Rushab Patel said they will not underrate Sikh Union at whatever cost. “We will treat them as any other team. Sikh Union have played some very competitive cricket lately and that’s obviously the reason they have reached where they are at the present,” he said. Rushab will start in the top order alongside the likes of Alex Obanda and Harendra Kerai. Dhwanil Patel, Swamibapa’s middle-order mainstay has been in great form so far in the tournament and will be hoping for another good batting performance to lead his team to the coveted crown. Simba’s batting line-up will be buoyed by the services of skipper Sukhdeep Singh, Fasih Rafi and Usama Aslam in the top order, with support from Satish Hirani, Jasraj Kundi, Kalyan Muhammad and Charanpreet Singh in the middle order. Sikh Union have been the dark horses of the NPCA T20 League with a surprise fourth in the preliminaries to qualify for the playoffs. They also beat favourites Kanbis ‘A’ by 5 wickets in the Eliminator. Sponsors, Canton Group of Companies and Elite Tools Ltd are looking forward to an entertaining and competitive final at the Samaj ground. The Group chairman, Jayanti Premji promised future sponsorship. NPCA chairman Kanti Rabadia thanked the Samaj board for their support and lauded the SCLP Samaj cricket team as the most improved team in the leagues. Samaj feature in all the 3 tiers of the NPCA competition. The NPCA Division Two Final will pit Kanbis Development against Nairobi Jaffery in a match scheduled for Sunday (9:30 am) at Sikh Union Club grounds. Division One has 10 matches in total, with five of them programmed for Saturday. Ngara Sports Club 'A' are at home against Stray Leopards A, while Kanbis ‘B’ and GI Unicorns will square it off at Eastleigh High School grounds from 2:30 pm. The match pitting Stray Lion ‘B’ against Wolves A will be played at Peponi with Sikh Union ‘B’ hosting SCLPS ‘B’. Swamibapa B and Kongonis ‘A’ match is scheduled for Jamhuri from 2:30 pm.