A group leaders allied to the Kenya Kwanza Alliance have joined in condemning the Supreme Court for upholding the right of registration for the LGBTQ community. They said Parliament will not support the ruling. The MPs say the court directive does not only lead to the blatant violation of the law but also amounts to a gross disregard and disrespect for African culture and norms. They further claimed what they called unnatural sexual acts and immoral principles advocated by the outlawed group do not also conform to the religious teachings and beliefs of the majority of Kenyans. The leaders headed led by Kirinyaga Woman Representative Njeri Maina dismissed the apex court’s  judgment. She said the country is grappling with more hard-pressing issues and termed the directive as irrelevant, untimely  and a non-issue  at the moment. Maina said it is a travesty of responsibility for any law making organ such as the Judiciary to craft laws that do not serve the interests of a majority of the country’s citizens. “The laws are made to serve the needs of the  citizens. A majority of Kenyans are those that will not condone the legalising of any activities undertaken by the LGBTQ," she said. As Parliament we will in no uncertain terms be prompted to compromise our cultural beliefs and  support such a ruling,” she said. Speaking on Saturday in Kirinyaga, Maina further challenged the supreme court to channel its energy in delivering more constructive judgments that evolve around securing the interests and  future of the youths and the people living with disability (PWDs). The county MP further stated that the President has pronounced himself on the issue and as such,any  practice by the controversial group remains illegal in the country. Her sentiments were echoed by Mathira MP Eric Wamumbi who hailed neighbouring Uganda for its firm stance through imposing a decree that illegitimises unnatural unions. He added that allowing any activities by the LGBTQ risks destabilising family values and strong religious morality embraced by a majority of Kenyans. Embu Woman Rep Pamela Njeru called out the Supreme Court judges over the controversial ruling and called on them to be emulated by youths. “This judgement is a grave disrespect to our children and parents who are putting a lot of effort in bringing up their children in a socially challenging environment.” Her Nandi counterpart Cynthia Muge said African countries will not subscribe to improper Western culture that is not in line with its beliefs . (Edited by V. Graham)