Chemase Secondary School board of management wants an independent pathologist to carry out a postmortem on the body of a student who died after alleged corporal punishment. Kelvin Kiptanui, a Form 1 student, died at Nandi Hills Level 4 Hospital after he was allegedly caned by two teachers. Speaking to the Star on Tuesday, BoM chairman Dr Joel Chemiron said the only way to give the boy's family justice is if the government and an independent pathologist conduct the postmortem. He said they had confirmed that the student received 22 strokes of the cane from two teachers who punished him together with another student for allegedly cheating in a Physics quiz. “As the management of the school, we want to know the cause of death of our student which can only be established through a postmortem,” Chemiron said. The chairman, however, rubbished a preliminary report issued by the hospital on the cause of the student's death. “A family has lost a loved one, while we as an institution have lost a student. Let’s maintain calm and stop speculations until the truth is established,” Chemiron said. In the report issued by the hospital's acting medical superintendent, Dr Elkana Chirchir, on Monday indicated that Kitanui died from pneumonia and septic ulcers. "Student died at around 11 am of  March 4. Diagnosis: Severe septicaemia, severe pneumonia and acute peptic ulcer disease Not as a result of assault as it is speculated. Lab investigations:Wbc =22.4," the report indicated. Chemiron said they decided to close the school to ease tension and anxiety in Chemase area since the student was from the neighbourhood. The school is set to reopen on March 20. The school's senior principal, Martin Masika, had in a statement told the police that Kiptanui was punished by two teachers. Kiptanui's mother Monica Jerobon told the Star that at the time she was summoned, her son was vomiting blood. “My son was healthy when he left home for school and never complained as he was eager to catch up with the rest of his classmates since he reported late due to lack of school fees,” Jerobon said. Kiptanui died while undergoing treatment on Saturday. Human rights groups want chief government pathologist Dr Johansen Oduor and the Independent Medical Unit (IMLU) to carry out an autopsy on the body.