Nazarene University (ANU) have two crucial matches this weekend that will determine their stay in the Kenya National Basketball League top tier. The bottom-placed “Wolfpacks” who have 23 points will take on the University of Nairobi 'Terrorists' who are just above them on 25 in what is clearly a fierce battle for survival. The Rongai-based students will then return to action at the United States International University (USIU) courts the following day to confront Umoja who beat Lakeside 74-62 to pull away to safety. ANU, who surprised everyone by putting up a solid first leg performance,  have since crumbled and a worried coach Mike Oluoch is working hard to steady the ship and pull them to safety. “This weekend, we have two very crucial games that we have to win. We are preparing well and God willing we will win the two games. We all know what is at stake for the team and we have no choice but to fight, ” said Oluoch. The women’s matches will see league leaders Equity Bank Hawks, who have 34 points from 16 games, take on Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology. The bankers have been rampant, winning their last three games by outscoring their opponents by over 40 points. Sharp shooting Betty Kananu will lead the charge. A tough fixture on the card will see fourth-placed Zetech University Sparks come face to face with Strathmore University Swords, who are second on the table with 32 points. “The team is ok. We are just from winning the Kusa women's Championship in Rongo. We started training on Thursday after off days to recover. I know they will be ready by Saturday," Sparks tactician Maurice Obilo said. Kenyatta University “Oryx” welcome bottom-side Lady Bucks to the city. The Kisumu side have bagged 16 points after registering only three wins out of 16 matches played so far. On Sunday, Equity Bank Hawks will pull further ahead on the table with another easy match against relegation-worried Eagle Wings who are tenth with three wins. Lady Bucks will complete their two-game tour of the city with a game against Storms who are lying fifth with 10 wins to their name as ANU play Jkuat. 