Tusker FC head coach Robert Matano lavished flowery words on his charges after they defeated Bandari 1-0 at Ruaraka Stadium on Wednesday. Forward Eric Mmata, acquired from Kariobangi Sharks last season, was the toast for the Ruaraka-based brewers after he blasted in the solitary goal that separated the sides at full-time. Mmata pounced on a beautiful feed from Shami Mwinyi to score from a tight angle just five minutes into the game. The victory propelled the brewers to the fourth position on the log, where they are currently tied on 34 points with third-placed Nzoia Sugar, who have a better goal difference. Matano praised his troops for sticking to the script throughout the action-packed match, stating that they deserved to score more goals if they had capitalised on their opportunities. "This afternoon was a great exhibition of character. Beating a good side like Bandari is a difficult challenge. We appeared to be well-organized, and everyone played his part. Congratulations to the team," Matano took note. The seasoned coach challenged his players to unleash their full potential on opponents as the schedule becomes more difficult in the second half of the season. "However, there are a few things we need to work on when we return to training next week. We are conscious that the competition will only get tougher as we approach the finish line." As Matano enjoyed a successful day at the workplace, his counterpart Anthony Kimani bemoaned their seventh loss of the season, which dropped them to ninth place in the standings with 24 points. "It's not the kind of start we had dreamt of in our first game of the second leg. We hope to bounce back strongly in our next encounter," Kimani said. Kimani, however, observed that they had put on a magnificent performance, but that they had not been fortunate enough to convert the opportunities that came their way. "If we expect a good finish this season, we have no choice but to start generating positive results," he remarked. Kenya Police fended off a close contest to edge Kariobangi Sharks 3-2 at Kasarani Annex. Elvis Rupia broke the deadlock in the 13th minute to enhance his chances for the Golden Boot gong. Fortune Omotto, however, netted on the half-hour mark to ensure a tie at the breather. Quickfire goals from Clifton Miheso and Duke Abuya in the 49th and 50th minutes respectively fired the law enforcers ahead before Tyson Otieno scored in stoppage time to reduce the deficit. Record champions, Gor Mahia, played out a two-all draw against hosts Nzoia Sugar at Sudi Stadium in Bungoma. Bankers, KCB, pipped Talanta 1-0 at Kasarani Annex to go second on the log with 36 points, two adrift of leaders Gor. Sofapaka beat Mathare United 1-0 at Moi Stadium, Kasarani while Ulinzi Stars registered a win of the same margin over Kakamega Homeboyz at Ulinzi sports complex in Langata, Nairobi.