President William Ruto has expressed confidence the country is now ready for takeoff after slaying four pressing issues including halting planned borrowing of Sh300 billion by the last regime. The head of state said he had to bring to an end incessant borrowing, extra judicial killing, misuse of government resources and abuse of state officers that were rampant in the last regime. In the name of subsidies, the President said, the country spent Sh34 billion and a further Sh8 billion for maize subsidies. He said there were rampant withdrawals under Article 223 of billions of shillings—monies that ended up in people’s pockets. “We must stop misusing taxpayers’ money through subsidies. Some people took advantage of Article 223 to get money,” he said. Article 223 gives government leeway to spend money that has not been appropriated by Parliament, however the law requires Parliament to regularise the spending within two months after the withdrawal. The President disclosed he had to bring the four issues to a closure during his first months in office as they were dangerous to the country. “I had to stop unnecessary borrowing which was destroying our economy, that was my immediate task and stabilise the economy. The Sh300 billion that was to be borrowed we had to stop and plan our economy,” he said. Ruto said the issues were draining the country and no meaningful development was possible unless a bold step was taken to address them. “We used to hear of bodies being dumped in rivers and police officers were even involved. This had to stop,” he added. “Today the country is on sound footing and we are now well prepared to take the country forward.” The President was speaking during an interdenominational thanksgiving service at Kirubia Stadium, Chuka, Tharaka Nithi county. He was accompanied by his deputy Rigathi Gachagua, Interior Cabinet Secretary Kithure Kindiki, National Assembly Majority Leader Kimani Ichungw'ah and area governor Muthomi Njuki amongst tens of top government officials and elected leaders. The President promised to work with all leaders to turnaround the country’s economy which he noted was not in good shape. His administration, he noted, will deliver to Kenyans across the country without discrimination. “Because elections are behind us, the remaining part is us leaders to deliver on our pledges. I will work with all elected leaders to plan our country’s development to take our country forward,” he said. Rigathi said he was misquoted over the ‘share’ remarks in Kericho clarifying that he meant that only Kenya Kwanza supporters could be trusted with key ministries to drive the Kenya Kwanza transformative agenda. He also said all Kenyans pay tax and are entitled to government services. “I said in Kericho that this Kenya everyone should get government service because they pay tax, but when it comes to those who are helped, you must pick those who supported and understand you. If you give those opposed to you a ministry, they will fail you intentionally,” the DP said.      -Edited by SKanyara