Former influential Kibaki era cabinet minister John Michuki's daughter, Wanja Michuki, has resigned as a member of the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC). Wanja resigned from the AFC board amid President William Ruto's ruthless purge targeting allies of retired President Uhuru Kenyatta across government, including state corporations. In a letter dated March 2, 2023, and addressed to Agriculture CS Mithika Linturi, Wanja revealed that she quit from the AFC board owing to 'personal reasons'. “I write to inform you that I have chosen to resign from the board of directors of AFC for personal reasons, effective immediately. It was an honour to serve on the Board of directors of the corporation. Thank you for the opportunity and I wish the ministry and the corporation all the best,” Wanja said in her letter. Wanja was appointed as a member of the AFC board in May 2022 through a gazette notice by then Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya. Immediately she resigned, the late cabinet minister's daughter went on to give details for hr resignation on social media. “I find that our most overlooked agencies are choice and commitment. In my experience, self-mastery comes through the process of self-trust and self-empowerment through choice and commitment to your ideals and values. This process can take decades,” she wrote. “Self is your higher self, your conscious union with the Creator of All That Is. Self is life-affirming and virtuous. There is nothing more fulfilling than choosing and aligning with yourself. The lifelong follow-through is in your commitment to Self. This is expressed through unconditional love for yourself. It cuts through illusions of status and power. It brings you back to ‘little old me’- your truest and most powerful friend- your inner child.” Wanja said she had given her the country and humanity during her tenure as a board member of AFC. “I am so glad that I have done the work and continue to…My commitment to our humanity will always be,” she said. 