The Africa Cloud & Security Summit is set to bring together leading experts in cloud computing and cybersecurity for two days of insightful discussions and thought-provoking presentations. The event, organised by dx5 (formerly CIO Africa), will take place on March 16 and 17, 2023, at the Mercure Hotel (formerly Crowne Plaza), Upper Hill, Nairobi. It will also be available virtually for remote attendees. The Africa Cloud & Security Summit promises to be a timely and important event for anyone interested in cloud computing and cybersecurity. The first day of the summit will focus on cloud computing, with topics such as accelerating cloud adoption, and the future of cloud computing. On the second day, the focus will shift to cybersecurity, with panel discussions on topics such as "The Evolving Threat Landscape" and "Cybersecurity for Small and Medium Enterprises". The Africa Cloud & Security Summit is expected to attract a diverse range of attendees, including CIOs, CISOs, IT managers, cybersecurity professionals, and business leaders. The event will provide a platform for attendees to learn from experts, share experiences, and network with industry peers. In addition to the keynote presentations and panel discussions, there will also be opportunities for attendees to engage with sponsors and exhibitors, who will be showcasing the latest technologies and solutions in cloud computing and cybersecurity. Some of the notable speakers and panellists at the event include Dan Kwach, Managing Director, East Africa Region, Africa Data Centres (ADC); Richard Muthua, Executive Head, Cloud and Cyber Security, Liquid Intelligent Technologies, Moses Okundi CTO, Absa Bank Kenya and dx100 Winner 2022, and Edgar Okioga, Head of Information and Digital Technology, BAT Nigeria. Harry Hare, Chairman, dx⁵ said: "The Africa Cloud & Security Summit is an important event for the African tech community, and we're thrilled to bring together some of the leading experts in cloud computing and cybersecurity. With the growing sophistication of cyber threats, it's more important than ever for organisations to stay up-to-date on the latest trends and best practices in these areas. We look forward to a dynamic and engaging event." Some of the confirmed sponsors of the event include Africa Data Centers, Liquid Intelligent Technologies, and Seacom. The Africa Cloud & Security Summit promises to be an engaging and informative event for anyone with an interest in cloud computing and cybersecurity. With a strong lineup of speakers, sponsors, and exhibitors, it is set to be a highlight of the African tech calendar.