As alluded to in some quarters, ODM leader Raila Odinga has enjoyed the enigma tag as long as he has been in active politics, thanks in part to his manipulative and combative way of doing politics. Quite often, during and after general elections, Raila has employed propaganda, blackmail and subterfuge to get his way into government. In all these, he succeeded in elbowing or wrong footing the insiders. Now, for the fourth time, he is making another attempt at reinventing the wheel but has glaring hurdles he will need to surmount this time round. While everybody wants quick solutions to the tough economic times, many believe it came about because of the cumulative greed, corruption and state capture of the various administrations, three of which Raila served as adviser, minister and prime minister. The Uhuru administration being the most recent one bears most blames for the current sorry state of affairs. Raila was an important figure in the second half of that administration, as President Uhuru Kenyatta told Kenyans. President Ruto then becomes believable when he says he is fixing a broken system brought about by none other than those criticizing him, Raila included. In effect, this takes the wind out of Raila’s sail and makes some people to question his sincerity, despite the message on economy getting sympathetic consideration. Two, the Azimio leader lacks formidable, battle-hardened foot soldiers. He has also been abandoned by quite a number of his former financial backers, many of whom fear that the favours they got from the previous governments such as tax breaks and exemptions would come to haunt them. To look formidable, Raila has been ratcheting his anti government rhetoric using threats, which he can't match with his current capability. The media frenzy is all for options. The youth he parade can't sustain the pressure.  In the end, he will find the fire he has started engulfing him, his party already raided to smithereens. Odhiambo Jamwa is an economic and political analyst 