A nominated MCA in Busia and her husband have been arraigned after allegedly assaulting a businessman in Mungatsi in Busia, on November 16, 2022. Mercy Wanyonyi and her husband Danstan Riziki are accused of assaulting Christopher Buchunju, a businessman in the Mungatsi trading centre in Nambale sub-county on the said date. According to court documents, Buchunju accuses the MCA, her husband and a man he identified as Karim Nuru of assaulting him. Karim is said to be the Member of the County Assembly's driver. The three according to Buchunju drove to his shop in Mungatsi where he claims the three beat him up. The assault, he said, happened two days after the MCA sent allegedly him text messages claiming he was against her quest to grow politically and as a result, she would deal with him. The MCA and her husband appeared before Busia chief magistrate Edna Nyaloti but denied the charges. They were released on Sh10,000 cash bail, each. The case will be mentioned on March 15, 2023. The complainant alleges that Wanyonyi also sent him a WhatsApp message warning him that she would ‘teach him a lesson’. The MCA after the assault is alleged to have told the accused to feel free to pick up a P3 Form, fill it and meet her in court. WIFE MURDER Meanwhile, a man accused of killing his wife in Busia will be held for 14 days to allow police carry out investigations into the incident. Peter Keitano Omaset, a resident of Adung’osi in Teso South sub-county appeared before Busia chief magistrate Edna Nyaloti before police requested to be given two weeks to conduct investigations. According to prosecution, the accused is claimed to have attacked his wife Judith Omaset on March 5. The attack left the deceased with internal injuries which the prosecution said led to her death. She had been driven to the Alupe sub-county hospital for treatment but was pronounced dead on arrival at the health facility. “The Accused attacked the deceased Judith Omaset inflicting internal injuries on her that led to her being rushed to Alupe sub-county hospital where she was pronounced dead on arrival,” police lead investigation officer Shem Ngige told court. The accused is said to have attacked his wife following a domestic feud. The body of the deceased was taken to the Alupe sub-county hospital mortuary awaiting postmortem.