The Kenya Urban Roads Authority (KURA) has clarified that it’s not blocking members of the public from accessing Karura forest. Last week, in a request for a statement at the Nairobi County Assembly, Karura MCA Kamau Thuo said that Thigiri Lane and Thigiri Close were closed on November 21, 2022, by KURA for maintenance. Thuo said there have been concerted efforts to block the roads by a section of residents. The residents have maintained that they will hold a protest this week to condemn KURA for the move. But KURA has denied any wrongdoing and maintained that its actions are within the law. Speaking during a press briefing in his office, KURA Director General Silas Kinoti said access into Karura forest from Thigiri Ridge is Thigiri Hilltop road. “We have no powers to block people from getting into the forest. The designated access into Karura forest as per the survey plan is Thigiri Hilltop road on LR No. 209/800/1which has a corridor of 60m to allow for safe and adequate access into the forest,” he said. However, the Authority said two roads in Karura terminate on dead ends and do not exit through the forest. Kinoti said the roads are public and classified as estate roads and that’s why public funds have been used to maintain them. He said a letter he wrote to the residents has been taken out of context. On 3rd February 2023, Engineer Kinoti wrote to the residents saying that upon review of the roads along Thigiri Ridge Road, its KURA’s determination that Thigiri Lane, Thigiri close, Thigiri Grove and Thigiri Garden are estate roads terminating at dead ends. “As per the designation of the roads in survey plan NO. LR 209/800/55-131, introducing heavy traffic on these estate roads will pose a danger to both motorists and residents. It's therefore our recommendation that traffic along these roads is prohibited,” Kinoti said. On 21st November 2022, KURA had written to the residents saying it’s in the process of undertaking periodic maintenance of Thigiri Lane, Thigiri Close vie contract number KURA/RMLF/NRB/077/2022-2023 through financing from the Road Maintenance Levy Fund. KURA through one Reuben Mayienda said the project commenced on the 14th of October, 2022 and shall be complete on or before the 14th of April, 2023. “The scope of work includes the upgrade of the two roads to the standard urban pavement with the installation of requisite infrastructure. We are aware of the ongoing dispute between the residents of Thigiri Lane, Thigiri Close and The Kenya Forest Services represented by the Friends of Karura,” Mayienda said. He said the major point of contention as observed was the management of traffic moving into Karura Forest through 'Gate F' currently located along Thigiri lane and the exit of traffic through Thigiri Close. “We inform that Thigiri Lane and Thigiri Close are both public roads with roadreserve width of 15m and existing paved width of 4m 5.5m. We further bring toyour attention that matters raised in regard to land use within the forest are outsideKURA's mandate and should be addressed by Kenya Forest Services and any otherconcerned institutions,” Mayienda said.