For six working months, the Presidential Working Party on Education Reforms would have spent Sh237 million to run its activities. According to 2022/2023 supplementary budget estimates, the allocation was factored under the state department of basic education. "The department received Sh237million under Temporary committee expenses to facilitate the taskforce for 6 months ending March," the report reads. Previously, MPs questioned how the 49-member team is spending the Sh237 million allocated to them. National Assembly committee on education Vice Chair Malulu Injendi asked ministry officials to list activities done by the task force. “Make us understand what activities are done by this team that they have been allocated Sh236 million, we want to know,” Injendi said. The Malava MP was speaking when the Early Learning and Basic Education state department appeared before the education committee. The department PS Belio Kipsang promised to take the committee through an elaborate explanation of the terms of reference for the task force. “We will take you through terms of reference, work plan and budget,” Kipsang said. He committed to submitting the task force work plan before the end of the day. The 49-member team gazetted by President William Ruto will submit recommendations in the basic education sector, on CBC and the higher education sub-sector. On CBC, the team led by Raphael Munavu is expected to elaborate on the conduct of key tenets in the curriculum. “Implementation of aspects guiding the competency-based approach including but not limited to value-based education, community service learning, parental empowerment and engagement,” the gazette notice read. The team will also evaluate the assessment of learners, the quality assurance and the standards of CBC. Ruto also directed the team to look into teacher training and deployment. “The technology for curriculum delivery, improved learning outcomes and education management, public school categorization policies and implications on access, transition, and cost,” the notice read. The higher education subsector will also undergo reforms, according to recommendations given by the task force. Ruto asked that the Munavu team review legislation in the institutions of higher learning. This includes Technical and vocational training and universities.