Over the years human beings have been looking to get buzzed. This has led to indulgence in alcohol. This beverage dates back to the beginning of human civilization. From Africa, The Americas to Asia human beings often brewed and consumed this drink. Over time, different cultures developed their methods of producing alcohol, using a variety of ingredients and techniques. Today, alcohol is produced and consumed around the world, in many different forms, and for many different purposes. Here are some mainstream types of alcohol, let's dive in. Whiskey Whiskey is a distilled alcoholic beverage made from fermented grain mash, typically made from barley, corn, rye, or wheat. There are several different types of whiskey, including Scotch, Irish, American, and Canadian whiskey, each with its own unique flavour profile and production method. Whiskey is typically consumed on the rocks(with ice) or mixed in with cocktails. Vodka Vodka is a clear, neutral spirit that is usually made from grains such as wheat, rye, or corn. Vodka is typically consumed straight or in cocktails. Vodka is known for its high alcohol content, usually around 40 per cent, and its lack of distinct flavour or aroma. Though these days vodkas are typically flavoured. Flavours include strawberry, apple, and chocolate among others. Beer Beer is an alcoholic beverage made by fermenting grains, typically barley, with yeast and water. Hops are also commonly added to give the beer a bitter flavour and aroma. Today, it is one of the most popular alcoholic beverages in the world, with many different varieties and styles available. Some of the most popular beer styles include lagers, ales, stouts, and IPAs. Different beers across the world have different flavour profiles and tastes. Tequila Tequila is a distilled alcoholic beverage made from the blue agave plant, typically originating from the Jalisco region in Mexico. The drink has grown in popularity and is now consumed all over the globe. Tequila is typically consumed straight, but it can also be used as a mixer in a variety of cocktails, such as the Margarita. Notes of tequila include fruity, sweet, and earthy taste; with notes of honey, citrus, vanilla, caramel, oak, and black pepper. Though the taste profile may vary according to the brewing company. This drink has a unique signature taste that differentiates it from other types of alcohol. Remember excessive consumption of alcohol may be harmful to your health and consumption of alcohol for children under the age of 18 in Kenya is strictly prohibited