If you have made it this far into the month, congratulations, you are really at the top of the resilience list. You and the other 50 million Kenyans really deserve a medal or at least a certificate of participation in this extreme sport we call the economy. Actually, make it 45 million Kenyans because we know there is a certain percentage of Kenyans who are still having it easy. Let's not call them Kenyans for now. I think everyone has felt the general atmosphere of the country right now. It is harsh. So kudos to you for surviving. If these first two months of 2023 have not finished you, then chances are you are still ripe for more flogging this coming month. Brace yourselves. The number of times I have heard people say that in the past few weeks, I can't even remember. The conversation usually starts with a hello and then goes on to two or three people commiserating over the current cost of living. "Man, where is everyone in Nairobi getting money from? There is no money in this town!" "Heh, you've noticed, too? It's a really tough time right now!" "I think the hardest times are yet to come, my friend. Brace yourself!" At first, I really thought that that kind of talk was very negative. I'm not particularly an optimist, but such negative talk never crosses my mind even when I am in the very thick of difficult times. But then I noticed that it is the general feeling of almost everyone I know, and that meant two things. One was that I am not really having as hard a time as everyone else. Perhaps I am secretly part of the percentage of 'Kenyans' who are okay with the current situation in the country. This is false because only the Lord knows how I am even able to sustain myself, and pay taxes to Him (tithe), to the government and to my relatives (the notorious black tax). There are other expenses that I have just been ignoring because right now, all that matters is that you are fed, watered, clothed and sheltered. The second thing it meant was that perhaps I was just ignorant about what was truly happening in the country. It would not be the first time either. Some of us barely follow the news or current affairs. Remember some of us young folk did not even go out to vote? (I voted though, not that it changes anything right now because we are all in the thick of it together). But yes, I was slightly ignorant and apathetic about a few things at the beginning of the year. It is, however, hard to ignore and turn a blind eye to lacking money in the pockets or bank accounts. I am paying attention now and the big question is, what can we do to stay afloat? I already know a few friends who are taking up second jobs and side hustles. Maybe two salaries will help somehow? I don't know what toll it will have on our general mental health, but as I said earlier, all that matters now is that you and your loved ones are fed, watered, clothed and sheltered.