 Crab farming is the newest blue economy money-making venture in Lamu county having been introduced recently by a Community-Based Organisation. The move by the Mokowe Mainland CBO is meant to effectively exploit crab fishing as a major income generator in the region. The organisation becomes the first to spearhead and effectively spread mud crab farming in the region, with active members already said to be reaping huge profit margins. Mud crabs, scientifically known as Scylla serrata, are among crustaceans of commercial value along the Kenyan Coast and the world at large. The CBO chairperson Abdirashid Aden said they started off the venture in March this year with a capital of just Sh6,000 which went into purchasing 10 special crates/cages for rearing the baby mud crabs. This was just shortly after they returned from a benchmarking training in Kilifi county on the same. He however said the initial attempt was the toughest as most of the baby crabs died before maturity while others were looted from their site. The second attempt was however successful as they were able to rear 10 crabs to maturity after which they sold them for Sh10,000 with each crab going for Sh1,000. “We did eight crabs in the 3rd round and sold all for Sh8,000. We currently are caring for 15 crabs in our hatchery and they are almost matured. It’s a lucrative venture but needs commitment and round the clock care,” Aden said. The hatchery has become the largest crab-supplier in the county with its major market being the hotels and resorts in the region. He noted that there is a high demand for crabs as a seafood in Kenya and around the globe and called for innovative and sustainable ways to address the demand. “This is definitely something that should be exploited sustainably through farming instead of wild fishing, which could threaten the species in the ocean,” he said. The CBO secretary Ali Swaleh said they plan to open up similar mud crab hatcheries across the 47 counties to enable Kenyans make the most from the unique blue economy venture which remains under-tapped. He called on the County and National governments to support their initiative through financial aid to enable for commercial crab farming production and exportation. The CBO plans to start a seafood resort in the county. “Since we are still dealing with low production, we can only sell them locally but we hope to get support so that we can produce more and export to the international market seeing as the demand is very high,” Swaleh said. The CBO’s Athman Aswa said they started off as mangrove conservationists and beach cleaners before they finally obtained authorisation from the Kenya Forest Services to carry out crab farming. The group has so far built 10 floating cages using special crates, pipes and cardboards with a capacity of up to 15 crabs. Aswa whose job is to feed the crabs, said the cages are simply used as fattening rooms for the crabs for a period of between 3 to 6 months after which they are ready for harvesting and sale. A kilo of crabs goes for about Sh1,000 locally. The group has collaborated with locally renowned crab catchers who supply the hatchery with crablets weighing between 180 grams to 200grams. Once they attain a weight of between 750grams to a kilo, they are ready to sell,” Aswa said. The CBO is however appealing to well-wishers to build them a board walk to enable them easily access and care for the crabs since the hatcheries are located aboard floating cages on the ocean. “The tide here determines when we get to go in there and feed them but with a board walk, we can conveniently do this at any given time,” said the group’s technician Bahati Fundi. Lamu County Senior Fisheries Officer Simon Komu while lauding the group for the initiative, urged them to consider incorporating prawns and ornamental fish for sustainable farming.     -Edited by SKanyara