Inmates at the Hindi GK Prison in Lamu County have received a donation of computers to help increase digital literacy among the prisoners. The computers were donated by Water For Life, a local community-based organization that has been undertaking humanitarian activities across the region. The organization's Director Abdalla Awadh said the gadgets will greatly facilitate and fast-track the recently introduced computer training at the facility. Speaking when he handed over the donation to the inmates and prison officers at the facility grounds on Monday, Awadh said the computer is to also enable inmates to pursue education through online learning even as they remain incarcerated. He said the move will also address the knowledge and skill gaps in digital literacy that will benefit the inmates by accessing content and further developing their skills within and outside prison walls. “We have inmates who are sitting their KCPE this year for instance. This should enable them to access virtual classes and any other relevant to their education. Bottom line is to facilitate online learning,” he said. The organization has also joined hands with Jaffer Foundation, yet another CBO, to distribute free water to inmates at the prison to cushion them from the ravaging drought which has seen many water sources in the county dry up. “We distribute water three times a week and have been doing so for the last three years. We understand what the drought has brought about and this is just our small way of helping humanity,” said Awadh. The prison Superintendent, Festo Odongo appreciated the donation and noted that improving digital literacy in prisons helps to lower recidivism. He stated that as the world becomes more and more connected through technology, digital literacy is proving to be essential for every aspect of life. “It’s the same even for those who are incarcerated. That is why as a prison we have introduced computer training for our inmates and these computers will definitely boost that,” said Odongo. The prison Superintendent stressed that as part of the rehabilitation efforts, inmates are trained and equipped with essential life skills in carpentry, tailoring, farming and now, computing. “We shall provide them with certificates once they are done with the training and grading. We’re also partnering with other organizations to provide them with the tools. This will enable them to start their own workshops and ensure they don’t revert back to crime,” said Odongo. The prison sergeant Rukia Hamisi urged the community to give convicts a second chance once they are released and believe that they have been rehabilitated. “We are preaching for a tolerant society that understands that prison is just a correctional facility and that those who go through the system are actually better by the time they are coming out,” said Hamisi. 