Kenya is one of the African countries that has experienced the devastating effects of Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine. However unjust this war is for Ukrainians themselves, it is not less unjust for Kenyans as it leads to devastating consequences. Over 3.5 million people in Kenya are currently experiencing severe hunger, including one million children under five years, as well as 100,000 pregnant women. According to UNDP, Russia’s aggression against Ukraine will weaken Kenya’s robust economic growth of over seven per cent, recorded in 2021. Meanwhile, Russia’s ongoing war in Ukraine has reached a one-year mark. And as long as Russia continues to destroy Ukraine, the well-being of the Kenyan people is at risk. Russia has disrupted supply chains from Ukraine - one of the top grain providers in the world. Considering Kenya imports about 15 per cent of its wheat from Ukraine, the food crisis is only expected to grow. As a result, Kenya is dealing with political turbulence, fueled by the social and economic crisis. Kenya went through difficult presidential elections, rising consumer prices, and a challenging drought in the coastal and central parts of the country. Despite multiple crises, Kenyan democracy remained stable and became an even more attractive hub for investment and cooperation in the Eastern African region. Similarly for Ukraine, against all odds and gloom predictions, the Ukrainian nation emerged stronger, successfully defending its territory and curtailing Russian revisionist imperialism. Ukraine was openly welcomed as a future member of the European Union, something unseen before the war. On the one hand, the war drastically impacted both Ukraine and Kenya, but on the other, it created opportunities for these two countries to enhance security and economic growth. Ukraine-Kenya partnership is the way forward and can bring economic, social, and cultural benefits to both countries, promoting further growth and development. Several important points explain how Ukraine and Kenya can benefit from closer cooperation and improve the lives of their populations. First, Kyiv and Nairobi share the same values of freedom, the rule of law, and principles of international law. Although on different continents, Kenya and Ukraine have learned over the past 20 years that predictable collaboration without hidden intentions to establish neo-colonial rule is possible only between democratic countries. Second, Ukraine has gained significant negotiation experience with the EU to establish a deep and comprehensive free trade area. For Ukraine, the EU market is a new opportunity with a clear set of rules and large capacity. As a partner of Ukraine, Kenya could also benefit from this. Since 2021, Ukraine has begun to explore new opportunities in Africa, including East African Community and Kenya in particular. At the same time, Kenya is working hard to unlock the full potential of the African Free Continental Trade Agreement and push forward to implement the Economic Partnership Agreement between the EU and EAC. Thus, Ukraine and Kenya could work together to establish an early bridge between East-Central Europe and Eastern African nations. It can include establishing intergovernmental and business-to-business platforms to exchange experience and launch joint commercial projects to enter respective common markets in Africa and Europe. For example, both Ukraine and Kenya have solid agricultural sectors, with Ukraine being a major exporter of grains, sunflower oil, and other products, while Kenya is known for its tea, coffee, and horticulture products. The two countries could collaborate on research and development of new agricultural technologies and exchange expertise in areas such as crop management and food processing. This can bring a range of benefits to both Ukraine and Kenya, such as increased trade and investment opportunities. By establishing these platforms, Ukraine and Kenya can increase their business and trade exchanges, leading to increased investment, job creation, and economic growth in both countries. For example, Ukraine has a fast-growing textile industry, while Kenya is an exporter of cotton. The two countries could collaborate on textile manufacturing and apparel production, taking advantage of their respective strengths in the industry. There is also access to new markets: Joint commercial projects between Ukraine and Kenya can provide a gateway to new markets in Africa and Europe, allowing businesses in both countries to expand and diversify their customer base. Ukraine is a major producer of natural gas and coal, while Kenya is Africa's leader in renewable energy such as geothermal, wind, and solar power. The two countries could enter each other's energy markets, by working together. For example, Ukrainian energy companies could partner with Kenyan firms to build renewable energy projects in Kenya, such as solar or wind farms, while Kenyan energy companies could provide expertise in renewable energy technology to Ukrainian companies. In fact, Presidents Volodymyr Zelensky and William Ruto have already mentioned one potential project: Creating a regional grain hub in Kenya. It can be a good start because the East African and Central Eastern Europe nations can complement each other in the agricultural sector, manufacturing, and services. Ukraine has enough resources to provide up to 25 per cent of the Kenyan wheat import beginning this year. Third one but far from the last one, Covid-19 global slowdown and inflation shock caused by the Russian invasion showed that the best adaptation cases were the countries with the diversified trade structure and various partners worldwide. Kenya and Ukraine can learn from this lesson as they move forward together, rebuilding their economies. Ukraine heavily relies on European Union exports, while the United Kingdom and the United States are among Kenya's leading agricultural exporters. By working together, Ukraine and Kenya could explore new markets in Africa and Eastern Europe, reducing their reliance on a single market. PROMISING SPHERES OF COOPERATION In this respect, Kenya and Ukraine have the three most promising spheres of cooperation. Technology transfer According to President Ruto, in the next five  years, Kenya wants to move government offices and operations online, and digitalize services to bring in a Sh5 trillion in revenue. Ukraine can play a crucial role in helping Kenya to reach this bold objective. Ukraine has got a unique set of IT solutions in the public and private sectors. Ukrainian e-services, including online banking, successfully survive regular “ideal storms” of the Russian cyber-attacks and energy disruptions. Kenyan professionals can learn from Ukrainian experts in these areas, developing new skills and improving the competitiveness of Kenya's technology industry. Kenya can become a pioneer implementer who adapts Ukrainian ideas and solutions to the needs of the African markets. For example, Ukraine has developed a robust cybersecurity infrastructure in response to frequent cyber-attacks from Russia. Kenyan professionals could learn from Ukrainian experts in this area, gaining new skills and knowledge to improve the cybersecurity of Kenyan businesses and government agencies. Ukrainian companies could also provide cybersecurity solutions and services to Kenyan clients, helping to protect them from cyber threats. Energy guardrails Then, Ukraine managed to guard the national energy system against collapse under the tremendous stress of the Russian missile attacks. The Ukrainian private energy companies demonstrated remarkable agility and capacity to repair damages and support the national economy and transportation system. These anti-crisis solutions and a combination of energy sources can be transferred to Kenya to reduce a dependency on external suppliers of energy and relevant services. Due to a lack of technical expertise and limited financial resources, Kenya would highly benefit from working with Ukraine. Battlefield defense Finally, Ukraine’s successful defense against the Russian army revealed how innovative use of the fourth industrial revolution technologies transforms the battlefield and gives an upper hand to the smaller army. In the past decades, Ukraine supplied Kenya with Soviet-type weapons. Today, Kenya and Ukraine can make joint projects to modernize the ways how the armed forces tackle old and new security threats. It includes the development of unmanned aerial, and surface multipurpose drones, software for accurate reconnaissance and high-precision identification of targets. Russia’s invasion of Ukraine has highlighted the critical importance of modernizing one's own army. A strong military is not only a safeguard against aggression during peacetime but also a reliable protection during times of instability. Ukraine's experience serves as an important example for countries that face instability nearby, just like Kenya. WHY THE WAR SHOULD BE STOPPED IMMEDIATELY For Kenya and Ukraine to start an active partnership in multiple areas, Russia’s full-scale invasion should come to an end. African countries, including Kenya, can play an important role in this scenario by condemning Russia’s aggression, joining international sanctions, and refusing to buy Russian goods. If Russia is fully isolated on an international scale, it is more likely that Putin will be under immense pressure to end the war in Ukraine. Meanwhile, if the war continues and turns into a protracted conflict, the consequences for Kenya, including starvation and economic instability, are likely to remain. Now it’s up to the Kenyan people and the Kenyan government to act out of the country’s best interests. Ukraine is a perfect example of the power of unity and the devastating consequences of indifference. Kenya could avoid what Ukraine is going through by standing up against injustice. The reason is simple - the success of one aggressor encourages others to follow the same path, especially in areas where conflicts and political instability are already prevalent. When the war ends, cooperation between Kenya and Ukraine can develop far beyond the outlined spheres. Ukraine is interested in partners who can contribute to the country's postwar reconstruction. The foundation of such equal partnerships is laid today, and Kenya should not miss the chance to participate in it. Dr Olexiy Haran is the head of Research, Professor of Politics