Nyama choma can be classified as a staple in Kenya, the dish is enjoyed all over the country. It is primarily made from goat meat, beef, chicken pork, or basically any type of meat consumed within the domestic household. It’s a dish synonymous with celebrations and special occasions, like weddings, graduations, birthdays, or weekends out with friends and family. Here is how you can become a Nyama Choma master! First, get your hands on some fresh meat from your butcher of choice, and ask them to give you a cut of meat that is roast friendly such as the ribs. After that make sure to prepare your marinade, this may include salt chili, garlic powder, ginger powder, paprika turmeric, and any other spice of choice mixed with lemon and a little bit of water and oil. Coat the meat with the marinade and refrigerate for at least 2 hours (overnight is recommended for better results). Let's dive into the grilling process. Light a grill and let the coal get red hot before placing the meat over the fire. Once the grill is hot enough, place the meat on the grill. Add salt and cooking oil to a cup of water. Turn the meat periodically to cook on both sides while basting it with salt water or a marinade. Remember we want to achieve a soft texture on the nyama choma so do not cook it over very high heat. Continue basting the meat, this moistens the meat and prevents it from drying. Basting is the act of moistening (foods, especially meat) at intervals with a liquid (such as melted butter, fat, or a marinade mixture) especially during the cooking process to prevent drying and add flavor to the meat. Once the meat turns golden brown, slice it to see if it’s cooked inside. Wrap it in foil when it’s done and place it on low heat or the warming rack while you prepare to serve. When it comes to roasted meat, it is typically served alongside ugali and Kachumbari(onion and tomato salsa) or green veggies such as sukuma wiki and spinach. Though one can add their own twist when it comes to paring this awesome dish. This dish will leave you reminiscing on how it ended, whether enjoyed with friends, family, or alone, Nyama choma is an experience that will leave you wanting more.