President William Ruto launched a robust plan last December to shepherd the country to its first World Cup appearance in 2030. This came only days after the government unveiled plans to bid for the African Cup of Nations in 2027 alongside East African neighbours. It's heartening to see that the government has undertaken an aggressive drive to bring Kenyan football up to the needed level of competitiveness. The bold steps are a huge comfort for the thousands of local football fans who yearn to see our national team thrive on the international scene. To succeed in the sport, the country will need more than the government's throbbing desire and financial power. Patriotism, the rare attribute that has bolstered Brazil's fortunes on the global stage, is what we lack and need today more than ever. The real foes of Kenyan football are insincere fans who idolize foreign leagues and loathe our product with adamantine rigidity. Strangely, people criticize our national team for poor performance when the fundamental cause is blatant neglect at home owing to the pervading influence of foreign leagues. How can our players succeed on the world stage when we spend hours hooked to our TV screens cheering on international players while doing little to promote local football? You'll never find me in one of those local pubs with a bunch of windbags bantering about English Premier League clubs. You won't find me in a clothing store scouring through the racks for replica Manchester United, Liverpool, Arsenal, and Chelsea jerseys. I've never owned a replica t-shirt for an English Premier League side. I don't support any of the clubs in that league. I possess a Gor Mahia replica jersey and support Kenyan football. I am a proud Kenyan! My unequivocal message to self-proclaimed English Premier League specialists is straightforward. One can't become a football pundit overnight on the strength of beer and a replica jersey — no pun intended. Don't misconstrue my assertions. I have no animosity toward foreign leagues or clubs. I'm simply disturbed by people in this nation who can supply the finer details of all the squad members of English Premier League football clubs, including the names of their spouses and children. However, they couldn't even name a single Mathare United or Nairobi City Stars player from the Football Kenya Federation Premier League. Surprisingly, these are the same puritans who will yell at our national team's terrible performance on the world stage. They will launch lengthy diatribes about Kenyan clubs' terrible style of play, then use it as an excuse to ignore our local league. The fiercest critics of Kenyan footballers are those who do nothing to help them establish a positive trajectory in the game, true to the saying, 'Empty vessels make the most noise.' Would it be prudent to swoon over the sumptuous curves of a neighbour's wife when you are doing little to feed your emaciated wife? Better yet, how would you feel if your woman decided to cheat on you just because you are not massaging her dreams well enough when she is the one who is not putting you on the necessary diet that can give you sufficient vigour to work her out properly? The English Premier League teams you now crave were previously as destitute and unappealing as our local clubs. Their current success is the consequence of dedicated, consistent, and significant investment. To reach substantial heights and compete effectively with the rest of the world, we must spend heavily on cutting-edge facilities and high-quality equipment. Those who are familiar with the fast-paced world of football coaching will agree that players who play for teams in foreign leagues are subjected to higher training approaches that are based on better facilities, equipment, and sophisticated information. Everything about our football is pitiful, from our uneven fields to our ill-equipped gyms. We do not pay our players adequately or promptly to motivate them to perform well on the field. We keep delaying their pay while expecting outstanding results. Football, like any other business, requires shaping to reach its full potential. It, like a flower, needs frequent watering and mineral supplementation to reach its maximum height. Instead of cramming those pubs with replica shirts in support of foreign outfits, we could decorate the stands of our stadiums with the magnificent colours of our local teams.