Taita Taveta county and the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority have signed a deal to facilitate procurement of drugs and non-pharmaceutical commodities from the agency. In the deal, Governor Andrew Mwadime said the devolved unit has committed to pay Kemsa on time to avoid accumulation of debts in future. He said his administration has already paid Kemsa Sh60 million out of Sh89 million debt. “We are opening a new chapter with Kemsa where we will be able to get supplies after three months without fail. Similarly, we have committed to pay them on time,” Mwadime told journalists after signing the deal outside his Mwatate office. He spoke on Friday shortly after receiving a consignment of drugs and non-pharmaceutical commodities worth Sh33 million from Kemsa. The consignment included assorted medicines, non-pharmaceuticals, laboratory reagents and other aligned commodities which will be distributed to health facilities across the county. The county boss said residents can now breathe a sigh of relief as all the 77 county health facilities will be stocked with all necessary drugs. The governor said that, “The consignment will take us for three months. This will go a long way to alleviate the pain of residents who seek healthcare services in the public hospitals.” Governor Mwadime reiterated his commitment to revamp the health care sector in the county and ensure proper service delivery to the residents. "My quest is to ensure that our healthcare system is up to standard. Today, I'm excited and I devote myself to continue working together with Kemsa to ensure our health facilities across the county are well equipped,” he stated. Kemsa county support manager Esther Somoire said the agency is committed to ensuring continued supply of drugs in all counties. She pointed out that Kemsa has reduced the delivery period from one month to 10 days to ensure that counties can place orders and receive drugs without delay. There are a lot of changes in Kemsa that are meant to ensure that counties benefit, she said, noting that counties can now track their orders in the new system. Somoire saidthat Taita Taveta county stands out as one of the best counties that has pledged to continue working with Kemsa to enhance service delivery. “Taita Taveta county had not procured drugs for the last two years because of unpaid debt. We are happy to report that the impasse has been resolved,” she said. The new deal, she said, will help the county to organise financial resources to make payments and ensure continuity for the supply of medical commodities. Deputy Governor Christine Kilalo expressed her gratitude stating that this will go a long way in ensuring the lack of medicines in the health facilities becomes a thing of the past. Kilalo warned healthcare workers against stealing drugs in public hospitals, noting that those found mishandling pharmaceuticals and medical equipment shall be punished. The deputy governor also urged residents to register with the National Hospital Insurance Fund to enable them access services in all public health facilities.