The National Cohesion and Integration Commission (NCIC) on Thursday said that it will provide mental health and psycho-social support to families affected by banditry attacks in the North Rift. They said the injustices that have occurred in the region have adversely affected victims who largely have been enjoying peace. "As evidenced by the high rate of mental health problems among victims of violence, there is a need to take these victims through the healing and reconciliation process and eventually stop the cycle of violence, especially in Laikipia, Samburu, Baringo, Isiolo, West Pokot, Elgeyo Marakwet, Turkana and Marsabit, " NCIC said. Through a memorandum submitted to the Senate Standing Committee towards the disarmament exercise and conflict in the North region, it added that these protocols will maximize the efficiency of very limited mental health infrastructures. "This should be done by providing contextually appropriate and community-driven services, to victims, to perpetrators and for the wider communities who have the potential to address the social impacts of these historical grievances and break cycles of violence," read the memo. The commission said that trust and confidence between communities and security agencies are needed to eradicate banditry. "Rebuilding trust between two or more hostile communities also requires long-term efforts to address deeply entrenched historical grievances and strengthen social cohesion, " said the commission. NCIC also advised the government to establish forums for engagement and collaboration among the communities. “There is a need to mobilize all strategic and primary stakeholders’ including politicians, cultural and eminent/active peacebuilders to be fully engaged in the peace, security and disarmament process,” NCIC said in its report. The commission also said that it remains committed to executing its mandate, working with other stakeholders and holding further deliberations on the issue in order to find sustainable peace in the North Rift region.