The NG -CDF Fafi office has initiated a flagship project that seeks to enlist an estimated 1,200 beneficiaries in the constituency. The exercise which is being undertaken in collaboration with NHIF officials targets to enlist vulnerable people into a medical insurance scheme. The initial pilot programme which was launched in Nanighi Ward on Tuesday and will continue in the coming days will see the officials crisscross the vast constituency to register new members. According to area MP Salah Yakub, this is in line with his promise during the campaign period to provide Free healthcare services to his constituents. “We all know how families undergo a lot of challenges and are unable to meet the cost especially when they are suffering from diseases that require a lot of financial resources. For this reason, I urge residents to take advantage of this opportunity and register," Salah said. Yakub said the Constitution of Kenya spells out the right of every Kenyan to quality health care services. He appealed to the chiefs, ward and sub-county administrators and health workers to work closely with the residents and make the exercise a success. Universal health coverage was part of President Uhuru Kenyatta's Big Four agenda. President William Ruto has picked it. Access to quality healthcare has remained a challenge to many, especially to poor families and those living in remote parts. This has forced many poor residents who can't afford medical care to resort to traditional herbal treatments that don't help. Amina Kuno, 60, a resident of Nanighi welcomed the registration process which she said will ease the burden on many families of paying for medical services. “We have never known the importance of NHIF. I guess it is because of ignorance. Nobody has ever come here to educate us about it. We give thanks to our MP because we now know about it,” said the mother of ten. The MP said the constituency will commit Sh7.2 million annually to help cater for the medical needs of the vulnerable members of the society in the constituency.