Security officers in Ndhiwa on Monday arrested three suspects linked to the rampant theft of livestock in the North Kabuoch Location in the constituency. The three were arrested after some members of the public reported to security officers where they were hiding after the loss of three bulls at Kowak village last week. They first raid homes before stealing cattle at night and transporting them using vehicles to unknown destinations. At times they slash, and stab cattle leaving them in pain. Livestock that refuses to get into their vehicle is slashed and injured to make them weak for easy transportation. Last week, Chief of North Kabuoch Location Samuel Kawino conducted a public baraza following complaints from residents over cattle theft. Residents wrote the names of the people they suspect to be behind the theft of cattle. The names were presented to the administrator before they started the manhunt for the suspect. They moved from one village to another during which they arrested the suspects. “We found a suspect while armed with an unused teargas canister, one bullet and a panga. We arrested and took them to Ndhiwa police station,” Kawino said. Last week some farmers in Kwabwai called on security officers in Ndhiwa to address cases of livestock theft in the area. They argued that cases of livestock theft have continued to rise despite raising concerns to the relevant authorities. Speaking after their meeting in Aora Chuodho market, senior retired chief Dickson Ogindo said some rogue people invade their homes at night and steal livestock. The animals being stolen are goats, sheep and cattle. Ogindo said many families in Kwabwai nowadays forgo sleep at night to protect and safeguard their livestock. “Let the government help us curb the increased livestock theft. Suspects should be arrested and charged in court,” Ogindo said. Villages like Nyandemra, Nyamos, Osani, Rachar and Abura are prone to the theft of cattle. “We want the police to patrol at night to salvage the situation,” he added. Farmer Elias Oyamo, Aora Chuodho, and village elder Maurice Orwa said livestock theft compromise development in the Kwabwai ward. “The livestock they steal we use for paying school fees for our children. Youths who steal livestock should be punished,” Oyamo said. Orwa said the high rate of insecurity in the area made some residents lose their lives. “Armed youths kill residents who resist them,” Orwa said.