A case in which Permanent secretary for Cabinet affairs Julius Korir has been charged with assaulting his estranged wife Evelyn Koech continued on Tuesday with a doctor testifying in the matter. Dr Stephanie Wakaba testified that in 2020 while carrying out her duties at Nairobi hospital, she received a patient by the name of Evelyn Koech. The court was told that Koech appeared to be sick because she had bruises and linear marks on her back, butt and a tear on her arm. "She came in with a history of physical assault, I attended to her and did a physical examination.  She appeared to be sick, in pain and had bruises," the court was told. Wakaba was testifying in a case Korir is charged with assaulting Koech while pregnant in 2020. Wakaba further stated before Milimani principal magistrate Caroline Njagi that she took images of the patient who requested to have them taken. A video of the same was also played on the court camera. Korir is out on cash bail. Two witnesses are yet to testify. The hearing continues on 30th May this year. In November last year, Koech narrated to the court how she was allegedly beaten by the PS, stating that Korir returned home one day and asked for food but, before she could respond, he had already started beating her. "On a fateful day, I was putting our child to bed when my husband walked into the children’s bedroom and shouted ‘Leo utaniona, iko wapi chakula?’ And before I answered the accused started slapping me. I was trying to protect the baby from the slaps," she narrated. Evelyn said that it was not the first time she received beatings from the accused, adding that the physical violence started in 2015 and continued all through the years "There's a time when I was three days to delivery…he beat me in front of his workers and other children," she said. An emotional Evelyne further told the court that she was lucky not to have lost the baby following the beating. The PS is charged that on September 17, 2020, at Ndalat Road, Karen, in Nairobi, he assaulted Koech and caused her bodily harm.