Geothermal Development Company (GDC) has now been given a three-day ultimatum to address grievances raised by its employees. Delays in payment of salaries, non-remittance of statutory reductions and check-off payments have been cited as the main issues. Through the Kenya Electrical Trades and Allied Workers Union (KETAWU), the company is said to have been deducting the money over the last five months but not remitting it to relevant Saccos and banks. According to the Union, this has continued to attract high penalty charges hence affecting members psychologically. Deductions for pensions, NHIF and NSSF, they said, are made but not being transferred. “It is the workers who are now bearing the brunt of this. The banks have started terrorizing the employees because the company is deducting loans and other repayments but not remitting,” Union’s general secretary Ernest Nadome said during a press conference Tuesday. He added, “The savings of members’ savings at the Stima Sacco have now been wiped out and they are no longer getting their dividends or earning salaries due to non-remittance of the check-off payment system.” Nadome said efforts to find a solution with the management have been fruitless. “I have written a letter to the company but they have not responded,” said the official. The company’s managing director Jared Otieno was not available for comment as texts and calls remained unanswered. The workers said they are going to convene a meeting on Thursday to deliberate on the matter before deciding on the next action. Nadome who is also the COTU assistant secretary general at the same time called for a probe into the activities of key departments in the company. He said supply chain, finance, legal and the current top management as well as the former managing directors ought to be investigated with a view to bringing back the operations of the company and ensuring there is order in the management. “KETAWU is calling on the board of directors, DCI, NIS, EACC, Ministry of energy and office of the president to form a multifaceted team to investigate the officials and the entire GCD operations since its inception,” Nadome said. GDC is a wholly owned government parastatal, tasked with developing steam for electricity generation to Kenya's electricity generating companies and private investors. The Union at the same time claimed the company owes, in arrears, Sh6 billion in taxes with KRA. In response, however, GDC said the operations are ongoing at a reduced scale as "we relentlessly address the cash-related matter." It also maintained that the salaries for its employees have been paid up to and including last month adding there are no arrears. "There are no salary arrears. KETAWU has written to us, and we will respond to them," an email in response reads. It adds, "We shall continue meeting our obligations by honouring payment of salaries and statutory deductions." The company further stated it has been in court challenging a garnishee order for demand for services not rendered to the Company by Lantech Ltd. "GDC is doing its best to defend public funds. The matter is still in court," it says. It adds: "GDC has complained to KRA on issues of tax and interest accrued and we are waiting for a meeting with them to amicably resolve the matter."