Lagdera MP Abdikadir Hussein on Thursday said he will appeal the High Court decision overturning his election win. The UDA Candidate Abdiqani Zeitun moved to court citing massive irregularities. The recount excise was carried out at Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) Warehouse in Nairobi’s Industrial Area where irregularities were found. Abdikadir who became the first MP to lose his seat has already received a stay order pending appeal. The MP took to his Facebook page to poke holes into the ruling which he described as ‘not Solomonic’. "It's not over yet. We are in control" the ODM MP said. "Lagdera constituency never steps away from our shadows. Not even losing a case before the court of law can deter us from reaching the apex of our sparkling mission." He went on: "Following this unexpected decision of the Court, I instructed my lawyers to file an immediate appeal in regards to this unfortunate and unsolomonic ruling." "I will fight back and become a true victor once again. I ask the people of Lagdera constituency to remain calm as we reclaim back our victory." Speaking to The star on phone later, the MP said that he has already instructed his lawyers to move to the court of appeal to challenge the ruling. “The ruling was not in our favour. But we soldier on. This ruling seeks to stop the good work that we have just started but our people should remain steadfast. The most important thing is that I have a stay order and I am still the MP Lagdera," he said. Speaking separately, Hassan Geley and Baraki Ward MCA said that while they respect the court's decision they do not agree with it. Geley who was elected on a UDA ticket remained bullish that Abdikadir will still carry the day in the event of a by-election. “I am standing here flanked by people to show our solidarity with our MP. We are telling him to remain strong firm and steadfast. That we are the ones who voted for him and even if the elections are carried out again we will ensure that he wins with an even bigger margin,” he said. On his part Mohamed Noor the peace chairman Afueni location regretted the ruling which he said had come at a time when the MP was settling down to start offering services to the electorates. Omar, who described the MP  who is commonly known as ‘Arabdhur’ by his supporters as peace-loving, called on the electorates to remain calm and maintain security. In the August general election, Abdikadir garnered  5,939 votes beating his close competitor Zeitun who managed to get 4,863.