A Murang’a man convicted of stabbing his wife to death over alleged cheating has had his murder charge reduced to manslaughter and released on a three-year probation. According to court papers, James Kimani known for his troublesome reputation and for abusing bhang and alcohol as a teenager, was angered by rumours his wife cheated. Beatrice Mukami his wife, lived with him in a rented house together with her two children from a previous relationship. Rumour had it that she was seeing the father of one of the children. Kimani felt offended by the circulating rumours and on the night of April 3, 2013, he came home drunk and a quarrel ensued between him and his wife. Kimani filled with anger and rage reached for a knife and stabbed his wife to death. Seeing the results of his actions, he fled. He would later be arrested and charged with murder. During his first trial, he pleaded guilty to the offence confessing that the death of his wife haunted him. He was held in custody for seven years after being charged with murder before he appealed. In September last year, he entered into a plea deal with the ODPP, affirming his confession and blaming his anger for his actions. "In mitigation, the accused stated that he was a first offender and had been in custody for the last seven years during which period of time, he had reflected upon his life and was remorseful. He sought a none custodial sentence," the papers stated. The prosecution then reduced his charge to manslaughter.  The court accepted his plea bargain and got it recorded in November 2022. A presentencing report adduced in court showed he was remorseful. In his sentencing, Judge James Wakiaga ordered that the man be released on a non-custodial sentence of three years. He was given a probation period of three years during which he shall be helped to resettle in society. His mother also promised to help him settle and Mukami‘s two children were now under the care of her brother who had forgiven him. The area administration did not have a problem with the convict since the offence took place in a different locality.