Kenya boasts a variety of mouth-watering delicacies. Arguably, the most vibrant street food scene in the African continent. Without further ado let's dive in. Samosa A pastry with a savory filling, including ingredients such as spiced potatoes, onions, peas, and most commonly meat, typically triangular. The samosa traces back its origins in the middle east during the 10th century. The first official mention of samosa was found in Iranian historian Abolfazl Beyhaqi’s work Tarikh-e Beyhaghi. Then it came to Africa where each country customized it to its own style. Samosas can be enjoyed at any time of the day, but typically they are enjoyed in the evenings paired with your drink of choice. Smocha The smocha is a wrap containing sausage and chapati with fresh tomato, and onion salsa paired with a condiment of sauces such as chili, and tomato. Smochas are best enjoyed in the evening. The creation of the smocha was born out of street creativity. Smocha vendors encounter long queues of people as everybody is trying to indulge in the flavor-rich Smocha. Boiled eggs/''Mayai boilo'' Boiled eggs surprisingly top the chart due to their popular consumption. Here in Kenya, boiled eggs are made with a twist. The eggs are boiled, chopped, and garnished with fresh tomato and onion salsa then topped with salt or any sauce of choice. Mutura The Mutura is known as the African sausage, typically it may consist of minced meat and small pieces of thinly sliced meat, that are stuffed onto a meat casing, hence it appears similar to a sausage. Mutura originates from the Kikuyu community of Kenya, and it is best enjoyed in the evening. Areas selling this street food tend to be jam-packed since it is arguably the most popular street food in Kenya. Roasted maize. This street food might be among the oldest on this list. The roaster will apply a seasoning mixture combination of salt, chilies, and lime. The flaming hot piece of corn is then placed in a husk, making it manageable to hold and eat. Roasted maize is savory, delicious, spicy, and very filling. Make sure to grab yourself some roasted maize and experience its fantastic flavor profile.