Google has announced the selection of 15 African women-led startups that are set to benefit from its inaugural Startups Accelerator: Women Founders Cohort. The startups were selected from eight African countries and aim to create innovative solutions that improve livelihoods in their communities. Of the 15, five startups are from Kenya. To celebrate International Women’s Day, it has also announced three new initiatives aimed at empowering women entrepreneurs and providing them with the resources they need to succeed. These include the Google for Startups Accelerator Africa: Women Founders Cohort, the Hustle Academy for women-led SMEs and a social media series celebrating inspiring women in Africa’s tech sector. “These women are tackling some of Africa’s most pressing challenges and we are thrilled to support them as they build their future,” Africa Startup Ecosystem head Folarin Aiayegbusi said. The selected startups include Afriwell Health (Congo), Alajo App (Nigeria), eWAKA (Kenya), Framer Lifeline (Kenya), Gobeba (Kenya), Hepta Pay (Rwanda) and Jem HR (South Africa). Others include Kola Market (Ghana), Maxibuy (Nigeria), MosMos (Kenya), Mipango (Tanzania), Smart Ikigega (Rwanda), Suitch (Cameroon), Tyms Africa (Nigeria) and Zydii (Kenya). Google Africa's head of communications Dorothy Ooko said that they are committed to providing women entrepreneurs in Africa with access to funding, mentorship as well as networking opportunities. “Through our programs, we aim to bridge the gap and empower women to succeed in their respective fields,” Ooko said. Google’s Hustle Academy is a boot camp-style training program designed to help entrepreneurs increase revenue, position themselves for investment, and build sustainable businesses for the future. As part of the International Women’s Day celebrations, Google also plans to host six women-focused cohorts of the Hustle Academy program in Kenya, Nigerian and South Africa throughout the month of March. Women entrepreneurs in these countries are invited to apply and join the cohorts. Google also plans to celebrate inspiring women in Africa’s technology sector through its #WomeninIT social media series. The series features the stories of six women who are breaking barriers and making an impact in the fields of tech, business, entrepreneurship, innovation and startups on the continent.