Kenyan logistic firm Logistic company Mitchell Cotts has unveiled the country's first vacuum cooling service that could  push up fresh produce exports. The service which is located at the landside of an air cargo terminal facility in JKIA, Nairobi is expected to assist Kenyan exporters to maintain the quality, freshness and longer shelf life of fresh produce. The equipment can cool up to 2,000 kilograms of fresh produce per hour. It is expected to help Kenyan horticulture exporters meet the growing demand for fresh produce exports in Europe, the Middle East and Asia. Additionally, it is noted to be a fast and efficient way to cool down the temperature of the product, quickly and evenly, helping to maintain the freshness and quality of the product. “The already commissioned equipment will assist Kenya’s exporters of fresh flowers, herbs and vegetables to extend the shelf life of fresh produce and meet the stringent quality requirements of international markets,” the group says. The vacuum cooling service is also expected to boost the country's export earnings and increase the competitiveness of Kenya’s exports in the global fresh produce market. Commenting on the newly launched service, managing director Mitchell Cotts Group, Daniel Tanui said that with the country’s post-harvest loss ranging from 10 to 50 per cent, depending on the type of farm produce, the service spells good tidings for the horticulture sector. “With the installation of the vacuum cooler at our cargo terminal, we are confident it will help horticulture farmers maximise their profits as the service is expected to improve the efficiency and reliability of fresh produce exports from Kenya,” Tanui said. He added that the service will be available to customers who book their cargo through either of their partners. On his part, Perishable Movements Kenya Limited CEO, Silas Kashindi said that they have invested heavily in the development of the service and are confident that it will help to increase the quality of fresh produce exports. Vacuum cooling service will also reduce the risk of contamination, which is especially important when exporting perishable goods. The launch of the service which seeks to boost the production and export of fresh produce in meeting the increased demand from the international market, will in turn also seek to improve the horticulture sector. The horticulture industry is one of the significant contributors to the Kenyan economy and employs over 1.2 million Kenyans. Lately, its been driven by increased demand for Kenyan produce in international markets, as well as the development of innovative technologies such as vacuum cooling and improved production and post-harvest management practices.