At least seven houses and a school have been burnt down by bandits in Kaptir Ward in Turkana South, a day after the visit of CS Kithure Kindiki in Turkana. Turkana County commissioner Jacob Ouma has confirmed the incident. On Friday, Kindiki toured Lokichogio and Nadapal in Turkana West to assess the security situation and the general development of the area. Ouma said the seven houses in Lokwar/Nakuse village and structures of Nakuse primary school were burnt by a group of armed bandits believed to be from the Pokot community. He said the bandits believed to be from West Pokot County raided Turkana on Saturday and Sunday. “Since last Friday we had reported that bandits have been in Lokwar and Nakwamoru along the river Turkwel in Kaptir Ward. On Saturday they burnt down houses in Lokwar market and on Sunday they burnt down Nakuse Primary school,” the county boss said. He said they have deployed enough security agencies to flush out the bandits in the region. “Just recently the Cabinet Secretary of interior Kithure Kindiki visited Turkana to assess the security situation. We cannot allow people to distract peace, as I speak security agencies have been deployed to beef up security,” he said. He said the security agencies deployed include Anti-Stock Theft Unit, police officers and Rapid Deployment Unit to flush out bandits in a troubled area in the region. “I'm confident people will go back to their homes because we cannot allow people to distract the peace, it's not going to be a business as usual,” he said. He has sent a stern warning to bandits and other criminal gangs from Turkana and West Pokot Counties with the habit of distracting peace that their days are numbered. Reynard Ewoi, Headteacher of Nakuse primary school lamented that a group of armed bandits shot at pupils at the school to scare them off and later burnt the structures. He said two pupils were injured during the incident. “It was one of the most terrible incidents that I have ever witnessed in my life. Bandits attacked our school and we had to run for our dear life, the pupils are scared and I don't even know their whereabouts. The bandits shot at pupils, burnt books, tablets and classrooms,” he said. Ewoi has urged the government to prioritise the security of pupils and teachers in a troubled region.