A family in Osiri area of Kisumu West subcounty will henceforth know peaceful nights after Kisumu Central MP Joshua Oron sponsored the construction of a house for them. The semi-permanent house was the perfect new year's gift for the family which has been staying in a dilapidated shack for the last two years. Elijah Ogenga and his wife Caroline Juma faltered in efforts to put up a decent house, but they will now be sleeping peacefully after years of cold nights. "No words can express what we have witnessed today. May the Lord continue blessing you and your work," Caroline told the MP. The legislator said he was struck by the family's plight when he saw the shanty they called home and quickly mobilised resources through friends to put up a decent house for them. He said the family in their previous house were prone to diseases caused by extreme cold at night and even attacks by scrawling insects and mammals. Community health workers working in the village identified the needy issue before seeking help from well-wishers. The MP said that he is a philanthropist whose work cuts across the Nyanza region. "Despite this not being my constituency where I represent, I will continue to help any needy cases without looking at the boundaries, "he said. The MP led the construction of the iron sheet house on Saturday and assured the family that he is going to uplift them economically. He promised to offer them money to help the mother of six start a business. "I will also ensure that I take their first daughter to school who sat for Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) last year and is set to join Form One." The family could not hide their joy as the construction of their house was ongoing saying their journey has not been easy after relocating from a rented house at Orare along the shores of Lake Victoria due to hard economic times. Ogenga noted that when they came back to the village, things did not go as they had planned hence were forced to live in the dilapidated house.