At least 5,000 pastoralists from Turkana have been treated for trachoma during a Mass Drug Administration in Napak and Moroto districts in Uganda. A joint team of health workers from Turkana and Karamoja-Uganda administered the treatment. The exercise was targeting everyone-children and adults. The majority of the pastoralists are from Turkana West and Loima and had crossed over into Uganda in search of water and pasture. The team visited areas where the Turkana community had settled such as Kobebe, Losogol, Lopei, Naput, Chokchok, Nakabaat, Losilan, Nadunget, Nanyidik, Lokisilie among others in Uganda. Turkana county eye coordinator Samson Lokele said despite the challenges, a dedicated staff from both Uganda and Kenya were able to administer trachoma drugs to a good number of Turkana pastoralists. “The elimination of the disease in Uganda and Kenya needs a concerted effort by stakeholders. The current administration of Turkana Governor Jeremiah Lomorukai is keen to see a healthy and developed Ateker nation,” he said. Lokele spoke in Moroto at the conclusion of the 10-day drive. Lokele said that although blinding trachoma has dropped from 8.9 per cent in 2010 to the current 0.5 per cent, the disease is still troubling residents of Turkana West and Loima subcounties and needs to be eradicated completely. He noted that Turkana West prevalence currently stands at 17 per cent, while Loima is at 11 per cent. He said there is hope that the disease will be eliminated by 2025, with the support of the Ministry of Health and partners such as Sight Savers-Kenya, Fred Hollows and Diocese of Lodwar. He said most patients in some areas showed signs of trachoma trichiasis that will need surgery in the future. Trachoma National Programme manager at the Ministry of Health Uganda Dr Opon Rapheal commended the joint team for the successful drive. He said initially it was impossible for Ugandan officials to carry out the exercise alone, but the presence of Kenyan colleagues has built trust and confidence among the Turkana pastoralists. Opon pledged to continue collaborating with Turkana health department to eliminate trachoma. “I invite you to join us in the upcoming three MDA activities scheduled for June, July and at the end of the year for greater collaboration and networked efforts to eliminate the disease,” he said. RTI International senior programme officer Stephen Begumisa said his organisation is committed to supporting the government in ending trachoma in the region through funding and provision of necessary tools. Begumisa said more officers will be looped-in to help reach a larger portion of trachoma patients who may have been left out of the exercise due to various challenges, including the bushy area. Moroto District health officer Lemukol James appealed for more support from partners so that joint health technical teams can reach the affected residents. He said the support will help the health team to access areas where Turkanas have settled to treat all other diseases other than trachoma to prevent cross-border transmission of diseases. The mass drug administration drive is being supported by Ugandan government partners such as USAID, RTI International and Act to End NTDS EAST. Turkana county coordinator for Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTD) Jimmy Lore said there is hope the MDA exercise will be successful. He said health education is carried out beside treatment as a strategy and preventive measure to avoid retransmission of the disease from person to person. He said trachoma is a crippling disease that can affect socio-economic activities of people. Lore said both Karamoja and Turkana health officials are using the drive to carry out surveillance of other NTD diseases such as Kala-azar, madura foot and Guinea-worm post certification for further action. Trachoma is a highly contagious disease that can be prevented through personal and environmental hygiene and it is treatable through medication and surgery.