A 40-year-old man has been arrested connection with the beheading of a 71-year-old woman in Kiambu county. The head is missing. The suspect, identified as  ding'uri  Maina, was arrested on Wednesday night as DCI detectives investigated the murder of Leah Mwihaki. She was killed at her home in Escarpment village in Lari subcounty on Tuesday night. The murderer entered her house after cutting the iron sheet roof with a panga. She was killed in her bedroom. Lari DCI Eunice Maingi said the suspect was helping with investigations. "We are still searching for the head. We want to establish the motive of chopping of her head and why the old woman was  killed." the DCI said. Investigations are ongoing and she declined to release more information. The murder was discovered when one of Mwihaki's neighbours went to check on her and found broken window panes. Resident Winfred Wanja said the neighbour started screaming and attracted the whole neighbourhood when she discovered the roof had been cut. "Her friend noticed broken window glass and a hole in the roof. She started screaming," Wanja said. They called police, area chief Karanja Nduati and assistant chief Njoroge Muiruri, who rushed to the scene. MCA Josphat Kinyanjui condemned the incident saying another old woman at the same village was saved from being attack by her alert neighbours. "Why target old women who live alone? These are people who need care, attention and protection?" he asked. The headless body was taken to the Uphome funeral home. MP Mburu Kahangara sent a message of condolences to Mwihaki's family and residents, saying security needed to be strengthened. He said more police officers should be added in the area since since those deployed concentrate on security for a Chinese road construction company. "We need proper strategies of patrolling the area. We need more police officers so that they can secure the area during the day and at night," he said. He said residents are furious about the incident and urged the DCI to investigate swiftly and thoroughly. (Edited by V. Graham)