Kenya Sevens head coach Damian McGrath believes the inclusion of Alvin Otieno and Brian Tanga can jump-start their season following a poor start. Shujaa currently lie 14th on the log with nine points with teams placed between 12 and 15 set for relegation playoff at the end of the season. The Englishman believes the duo will be a big boost starting with the Hamilton Sevens next weekend in New Zealand “They bring a lot of experience and X-factor. We know we are not in a good place on the log and we need to start moving up the table to avoid relegation,” he added. The tactician has handed debuts to Menengai Oilers and Kenya Simbas' centre John Okoth and Daystar Falcons' youngster Floyd Wabwire "For Okoth and Wambwire,  it's very exciting for the future of Kenya Sevens.  Okoth is well known to Kenya Rugby followers through his exploits with the Simbas and he is a big powerful skillful player who will offset the loss of Vincent Onyala to a great degree,” added McGrath. On the other hand, the coach was full of praise for the youngster Wambwire. "For Wambwire, it's a chance to give him a taste of senior rugby. "He has trained well and came from nowhere on the National Sevens circuit. "He was not picked out by the selectors but just caught my eye and he deserves this opportunity. "He is a long way from the finished article but I think he is going to be a fixture in the Sevens groups for a while in the coming days, ” added McGrath. Kenya face a stern test in Hamilton when they take on in-form Samoa, Fiji and France in Pool 'A'. “Hamilton is going to be tough. As always when you don't do well in the tournament before the draw, It is rarely kind to you. “I'm sure none of the three teams in the group will be looking forward to playing against us based on our improvements in Dubai and Cape Town despite all the field issues I'm positive about how we are going on this next trip,” he noted. Squad:  Nelson Oyoo (Nakuru), Willy Ambaka, Herman Humwa (Quins), Kevin Wekesa (Kabras), Dennis Abukuse (Oilers), Alvin Otieno (KCB), George Ooro (Strathmore), Edmund Anya (KCB) Tony Omondi, Ronnie Omondi (Mwamba), Brian Tanga (Kabras), John Okoth (Oilers) and Floyd Wabwire (Daystar Falcons).