The county assembly of Machakos has approved all Governor Wavinya Ndeti’s chief officer nominees. The assembly unanimously passed all 26 chief nominees in a sitting chaired by speaker Ann Kiusya on January 6. “Pursuant to the provisions of Section 45 of the County Governments Act, 2012, Sections 4 and 9 of the Public Appointments (County Assemblies Approval) Act, 2017 and Standing Order 190(5)(f), the Assembly has this afternoon approved the appointment of the following 26 persons as chief officers to various County Departments,” Kiusya said. The chief officers are; Muiya Andrew Mwema (Agriculture and Food Security), Maureen Mwende Maingi (County Administration and Decentralized Units), Charles Kyalo Mutinda (ECDE & Vocational Training), Ngumbau Mutiso Benedict (Co-operative Development) and Col Gideon Mbithi (Inspectorate, Fire Fighting and Emergency Services). Others are Simba Simon Mwako (Education), Mercy Ndululu Mutua (Office of the Governor), Metho Benson Kituku (Environment), Mutunga Anthony Mutuku (Lands), Paul Mawili Wambua (Urban Development), Mwanza Lawrence Maingi (Public Service and Performance Management), Adipo Collins Otieno (Finance), Mike Jace (Revenue Management), Mulei Stephen Kyalo (Climate Change) and Simon Kirima Muraguri (Energy). Guliye Abdullahi Yunis, Mutua Tobias Mutuku, Munyao Joseph Mutwiwa, Kanyae Bruce Isika and Papaa Koin Lompo are the new  chief officers for Water, Sanitation and Irrigation, Economic Planning, Industry and Innovation, Youth, and public works respectively. Dr Miyienda Wycliffe (Medical Services), Kioko Bernice Mueni (Gender, Sports and Social Welfare), Kasivu Justus Musau (Roads and Transport), Kala Mohammed Rashid (Public Health), Kitheka  Simon Kioko (Trade and External Relations) and Vincent Muendo Musili (Culture and Tourism). The 26 nominees were on December 29, 2022, vetted by sectorial committees of the county assembly. The names of the nominees were forwarded to the assembly by the governor in early December. Ndeti has already appointed the approved persons in their respective dockets and gazetted their names in the Kenya gazette. “In exercise of the powers conferred by Article 235(1)(b) of the Constitution as read together with Section 45(1)(a) and (b) of the County Government Act 2012 and upon approval by the Machakos County Assembly in its sitting on January 6, 2023, I do appoint the following to be chief officers in the County Government of Machakos……,” Ndeti said hours after the approvals on Friday.