Shabana moved to the top of the National Super League after an emphatic 5-0 win over visiting Mwatate United in a midweek clash at Gusii Stadium. Shabana leapfrogged Kibera Black Stars to the summit of the table after the Nairobi-based team was held to a barren draw by Naivas. The Glamour Boys have 16 points from six matches while Black Stars have 14 points from seven outings. Naivas is third with 10 points. Striker Vincent Nyabuto scored a hat-trick in the 6th, 32nd and 69th minutes while Wycliffe Nthata wrapped up the scores with a brace in the 83rd and 90th minutes. Shabana coach Sammy Okoth praised his charges for the win but warned them not to be carried away by the huge win. “Of course, we are now on top of the log but we should not be carried away. It’s still too early to look at the table,” said Okoth. He singled out Nyabuto for his sterling show. “He scored for us last weekend and scored a hat trick again today. We missed him at the beginning of the season and I back him to be the top scorer in the league,” added Okoth. Mwatate United coach Mark Assa said the team lost due to fatigue. “Even though there were mistakes, we lost because we arrived shortly before the game started. We have lost the battle but the race is still on,” said the former Mwatate player. In an early kick-off played at the same venue, Gusii FC defeated Mara Sugar 2-0. Edwin Ouko gave Gusii the lead in the 37th minute while Edwin Oucho added Gusii’s second goal in the 83rd minute. Gusii coach Kassi Junior admitted that Mara Sugar were the better team. “We got our chances and utilised them. Mara was technically and tactically better than us. We scored from a freekick and a counterattack,” said Junior. His Mara Sugar counterpart Francis Xavier rued missed chances. “We must work on our attack because we have not been scoring many goals,” said Xavier whose team lost their second game on the trot. At Moi Stadium in Kisumu, Kajiado FC upset hosts Kisumu All Stars 3-2. Steve Brian and Griffin Juma were on target for All Stars while Anthony Lukwai notched a brace for Kiajiado. Enock Ouma scored the winning goal in the 85th minute. Darajani Gogo defeated Mombasa Elite 301 at Camp Toyoyo while Murang’s Seal edged Silibwet 2-0. Mully Children’s Family thrashed SS Assad 3-0 in another encounter. The game between Fortune Sacco and APS Bomet failed to take off at Bomet Stadium. Fortune Sacco have now been relegated from the NSL for failing to honour three consecutive games while APS is staring at relegation if they fail to honour their weekend fixture.