Safaricom’s mobile money service, M-PESA, has announced Sh 26.8 million sponsorship boost for the third edition of the Magical Kenya Ladies Golf Open. The Magical Kenya Ladies Open remains the only event of its kind and the highest-ranked professional ladies’ tournament across the continent— providing a unique opportunity for the development of upcoming female golfers in the region. The tournament will be the first in a series of 39 golf events on the 2023  Ladies European Tour calendar. The event is set to take place from February 2-5 at Vipingo Ridge, Baobab Course in Kilifi County, with 96 players from across the world expected to take part in a 72-stroke competition. “We are delighted to sponsor the Magical Kenya Ladies Open yet again, for the third year in a row. This sponsorship highlights our strong commitment to supporting sports in the country and promoting Kenya as a premier sporting and tourist destination." The Ladies European Tour provides our young Kenyan lady golfers with an opportunity to learn and grow in the sport, which is in line with our goal of supporting talent through the spirit of Tuinuane,” said Safaricom CEO Peter Ndegwa. Safaricom will further sponsor all participating Kenyan players by providing both additional financial support and kitting. As part of its ambition to develop talent, Safaricom will also fully sponsor four female junior golfers drawn from last year’s Safaricom Golf Tour who will be participating in the Pro-Am tournament on February 1. 100 junior golfers are also set to benefit from a full-day coaching clinic to be conducted by professional golfers. The Kenyan team will be led by Vipingo Ridge’s PGA Academy star Naomi Wafula, VetLab’s Mercy Nyanchama and 16-year-old Chanelle Wangari, and Golf Park’s Nancy Wairimu. The quartet will feature in the amateur category. Among international golfers scheduled to participate in the tournament is defending champion, German lady pro Esther Henseleit. She is hoping to retain her Magical Kenya Ladies Open title for the third time. However, Henseleit is expected to face stiff competition from Marta Sanz Barrio of Spain and Linnea Strom of Sweden who finished second and third respectively in last year’s competition. There is a €300,000 cash prize for the winner. The tournament is part of the Ladies European Tour, organized by U.COM Event. It will be preceded by the Pro-Am tournament set for February 1 at the same golf facility.