Most people look forward to their detox around the New Year, probably because they are aware of how unwise their eating habits were during the celebrations or perhaps because it is a good way to introduce clean eating. The first step in detox is to look after the organs involved in the process. The body will naturally eliminate the toxins it contains when these organs are functioning properly. It's a common misconception that detoxing aids in the removal of toxins that have built up in the organs; however, the organs naturally accomplish this on their own. But some foods have compounds called antioxidants that help shield the body from free radicals. Diet has a significant impact on the organs' ability to perform at their best. Certain superfoods with potent properties are capable of performing the detoxification process. Let us focus on major detox organs and how we can take care of them with a diet to help them function as required. Liver as a detox organ The liver is a crucial organ that performs important functions in the body. It purifies blood toxins and turns them into waste products. In addition to detoxification, the liver is involved in nutrient and medication metabolism, the destruction of outdated or damaged blood cells, and blood sugar regulation. To help the liver function: Some veggies and drinks have potent antioxidant capabilities that support the liver's health and function. These include green tea, red cabbage, beets, vegetable salads, and smoothies (cucumber, carrots, spinach and avocado.) Heavy metals and other chemical poisons, including insecticides, can be removed from the body by coriander, according to research. Kidneys as detox organs The kidneys are super organs that filter the blood and remove waste products for excretion in urine. The kidneys support the body's homeostasis by regulating the volume and makeup of the blood. Tips to keep the kidneys healthy for optimal function: Gastrointestinal tract Prebiotic foods help to maintain a healthy balance of good bacteria in the gut. Yoghurt, for example, is high in beneficial bacteria for our gut. A high-fiber diet, such as legumes, whole grains, fruits, and vegetables, will also aid the GIT in its role of removing toxins. Grapes, berries, pumpkins, sweet potatoes, and broccoli are some other superfoods that may help the body eliminate toxins. This is because these foods have potent antimicrobial, anticancer, and anti-inflammatory properties. The skin as a detox organ The skin aids in the body's elimination of extra electrolytes like salt and water. Make sure you drink enough water, stay away from harsh chemicals, and exercise to keep your skin healthy. The bottom line is to get enough water. Water is so much more than a thirst quencher. Your body temperature is regulated, joints are lubricated, digestion and nutrition absorption are aided, and your body is detoxified by the removal of waste items. Additionally, to promote your body's health and natural detoxification process, you must get enough sleep each night. Your brain can organize and recharge when you sleep, and it may also flush out hazardous waste byproducts that build up throughout the day. Lucy Chege is a registered and licensed nutritionist, proficient in medical nutrition therapy.