The Council of Governors  has started the process of solving a county border dispute among Makueni, Taita Taveta and Kwale counties. In a Thursday meeting chaired by Bungoma Governor Ken Lusaka, the council met to determine whether there is a dispute and agree on mechanisms of solving the impasse in the best interest of all parties. It was attended by Makueni Governor Mutula Kilonzo Jr, Taita Taveta's Andrew Mwadime and Kwale's Fatuma Achani. Kilonzo took to his Facebook page to say the meeting was convened after he raised the issue seeking the intervention of the CoG over the long-standing impasse. “We would like to see cordial relations and close cooperation between the counties involved. We are therefore looking at mechanisms of solving the impasse in the best interest of all parties,” he said. The matter, Kilonzo said, came to a head when Taita Taveta sent officers to hold a meeting in Mtito Andei with a view to start collecting revenue from the border town. Tsavo River, which is about 65km from Mtito Andei town, has been at the centre of the administrative boundary row for a long time between the two counties. Taita Taveta leaders argue the border between the two counties is in Mtito Andei, therefore part of the town is its territory. But Makueni claims the boundary is at Man Eaters, inside Tsavo National Park near Tsavo River. “We are looking forward to the matter being presented to the Summit and alternative dispute resolution mechanisms deployed,” Kilonzo added. Kwale county also has a border issue with Taita Taveta affecting Mackinon town along Mombasa Road. Kwale claims its boundary with Taita Taveta is at Miasenyi, a few kilometresfrom Mackinnon Road town, while the latter holds that its boundaries extend to Landi ya Mwembeni, near Taru town. Since the inception of devolution, Taita Taveta has not collected revenue in her border towns of Mtito Andei and Mackinnon Road owing to a protracted boundary dispute with Makueni and Kwale counties. The county claims ownership of the two towns along the busy Mombasa/Nairobi Highway. The row over the two border townships has been ongoing since 2013. Taita Taveta's plan to start collecting revenue from Mtito Andei town was halted a fortnight ago after charged traders kicked out revenue officers from the town. The CoG meeting comes days after the Taita Taveta MCAs accused Governor Kilonzo of making remarks that might deepen the boundary dispute. “These remarks are not only irresponsible coming from a leader of his stature, but also dangerous and inflammatory in nature with the ability to incite violence at the borders and against our county’s revenue collectors in Mtito Andei,” the Deputy Speaker Anselim Mwadime said in a press statement. The MCAs further asked the CoG to take a firm stand against incitement remarks by its member, as it works on resolving the dispute. “CoG should advise its members to avoid making such public declarations that are damaging and are considered to be inciting in nature. As leaders, we must set the pace and set an example for peace, consultation and cooperation among counties,” the Mwanda Mghange MCA said. -Edited by SKanyara