Senate Speaker Amason Kingi has recalled senators for a special siting on Thursday. In the Gazette notice released on Wednesday, the Speaker said the lawmakers will consider the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (Amendment) Bill, 2022. The Bill seeks to change the composition of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission selection panel. The panel will conduct recruitment of electoral agency commissioners following retirement and resignation of the its officials. Elgeyo Marakwet Senator-elect William Kipsang will be sworn during the day-long sitting. Kipsang was elected during a by-election on January 5 to succeed Kipchumba Murkomen who was picked by President William Ruto as Transport Cabinet Secretary “In accordance with Standing Order 33 (5) of the Senate Standing Orders, the business specified in this Notice shall be the only business before the Senate during the special sittings,” Kingi said in the notice. The first session of the sitting will begin at 10am and end at Sh12.30pm. The second session will run from 2.30pm until the conclusion of the day’s business. Ruto’s troops are fast-tracking the amendment to the IEBC Act to change the composition of the selection panel ahead of the declaration of the vacancy at the commission. “Yes, we intend to conclude on it as it is urgent. IEBC lacks commissioners, therefore, there is a need to set up a selection panel,” Senate Majority leader Aaron Cheruiyot told the Star on Tuesday. Chebukati and commissioners Boya Molu and Abdi Guliye retired on Tuesday after serving for six years as provided for in the constitution. Commissioners Juliana Cherera, Justus Nyang'aya and Francis Wanderi resigned in the wake of their suspension and formation of a tribunal to investigate their conduct in the August 9, 2022 general election. Section 7A (2) of the IEBC Act provides that the President shall declare vacancy in the commission within seven days of occurrence of a vacancy in the office of the chairperson or a member of the commission. The Bill will be introduced for second reading and run through all the other stages in the during the sitting. In the Bill sponsored by National Assembly Majority leader Kimani Ichung’wa (UDA), two slots are being taken away from the Parliamentary Service Commission in the selection panel. They are given to Public Service Commission and Political Parties Liaison Committee, which get one position each in the seven-member panel. In the current law, PSC had four slots in the panel. They were picked by parliamentary parties from the majority and minority parties. In the changes, the Law Society of Kenya has been given one slot in the seven-member panel with the remaining two for religious agencies. (edited by Amol Awuor)