National women champion Nairobi Water Queens coach Jack Ochieng has only one thing in mind- to retain his crown. The veteran tactician said he will pick it up from where they left off when the Kenya Handball Federation (KHF) league resumes next month. Unbeaten Water Queens, who also retained their East and Central Africa title in Zanzibar last month, top the 12-team table with 30 points. They will start off the programme on February 12 against the seventh Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology (JKUAT), who are on 10 points from five wins. "Our intention is to retain our crown. We are ready for the resumption of the league and we will start off where we left off," said Ochieng. He said he expects his closest challengers Ulinzi Sharks and National Cereals and Produce Board to come out strong, but noted that he will be ready for the challenge. "The two are tough opponents and we know they are working hard to push us aside but we are determined to bag another trophy," he said. Ochieng's charges, who on Friday bagged the third place in the Sports Personality of the Year Award of the Year, women's team category remains the team to beat. The team also had two players Gladys Chilo and Brenda Ariviza nominated for the Player of the Year Award. It was a productive week for handball as men's champions National Cereals and Produce Board were named second runner-up in the sports team of the year category. KHF fixture coordinator George Asimeto hailed the feat by the teams,  saying their hard work has started to pay off. "It's a good show for us. We have worked hard to get here. Two of our teams not only made it to the top three but our two players also got close. "We must now make a mark in the continental championships to be recognized," he added. NCPB are perched at the top of the men's table with 30 points from 15 matches and remain unbeaten. The league will throw off for the last leg from February 4 with six matches on the card—all involving women's teams. Ulinzi Sharks will play Rising Star while Daystar University have two matches against Net Navigators and Nairobi City County. The rest of the fixtures will see Navigators face Jkuat, Amazon meet Rangers who will also play Kenyatta University.