The 2022 Sports Personality of the Year Awards (SOYA) shortlists have been trimmed to the final five—three days before the event is staged at the  Kenyatta International Convention Centre (KICC) on January 20. Last year’s SOYA winners 100m star, Ferdinand Omanyala and 1500m Olympic champion, Faith Kipyegon headline the list in the Sportsman and Sportswoman of the Year nominees. Omanyala will battle it out with marathon world record holder Eliud Kipchoge, 800m Olympic and World champion, Emmanuel Korir, boxer Nick ‘Commander’ Okoth and rally star Karan Patel. In the corresponding women’s category, Kipyegon will face it off with tennis sensation Angela Okutoyi, who won a first-ever Grand Slam title for Kenya. Commonwealth Games champion Mary Moraa, her 5,000m counterpart Beatrice Chebet and golfer Naomi Wafula are part of the stellar field. Serah Wangari, Beryl Wamira and Linnet Fwamba will face it off with para-lifter Hellen Wawira and last year’s winner renowned Paralympian, Nancy Chelangat in the Sportswoman Living with a Disability category. The 19th edition of the SOYA gala makes a comeback to the capital city from the county editions held in Mombasa, Naivasha and Kakamega. The men’s list of the Sportsman Living with a disability category has Deaflympians Symon Kibai, who is the defending champion, golfer Isaac Makokha, Ian Wambui, Lucas Wandia and wheelchair athlete Wesley Sang. The top five for the Most Promising Boy category are world U-20 champion, Reynold Kipkorir, rally driver Karamveer Singh, golfer Andrew Wahome, weight-lifter Joshua Amunga and Judoka David Katana. For the Most Promising Girl category, the nominees include basketballer Medina Okot, weightlifter Rachel Achieng, Commonwealth Games champion Jackline Chepkoech, 3000m champion Betty Chelangat and 3000m Steeplechase champion Faith Cherotich. Dennis Mwanja of Kenya Lionesses (rugby) battles it out for the Coach of the Year award alongside Japheth Munala of KCB women’s volleyball, Para-lifter tactician, David Waore, Sammy Kiki of KPA men’s basketball and his counterpart Anthony Ojukwu of KPA women’s side. The sports team men contention will be among the 4x 100m relay team that won gold at the Africa championships, the National Cereals and Produce Board handball team, and rugby teams Menengai Oilers 7s and Kabras Sugar RFC who won the Kenya Cup. The corresponding women’s team will see the Kenya Lionesses 15s side, Strathmore Scorpions hockey team, Nairobi Water handball squad, the 4 X 400m Commonwealth Games team and KCB volleyball side lock horns.