Kiambu governor Kimani Wamatangi on Tuesday held a crisis meeting with members of the County Assembly to end the row. The Governor and the ward representatives have been at loggerheads for days with the bone of contention being the management of the Ward Fund. The meeting comes after Monday's saga pitting Wamatangi and the county assembly over the ward fund among other issues. The MCAs claimed that bursary committees were being formed at the ward level without their knowledge or involvement. The ward representatives further accused the governor of belittling them and not honouring their invitation to discuss the welfare of Kiambu County. The governor since he was sworn in office has been facing a serious revolt from a section of MCAs who at one point rejected half of his cabinet nominees. He recently told off his detractors, accusing them of being impatient with his administration, and vowed not to fall into the trap of his critics insisting he will work without fear. Murera Ward MCA Moses Ngatha said that no one had filed a motion in the assembly to impeach the governor but they had moved to the governor's office for a meeting in regard to bursary allocation and other issues only for the governor not to turn up for the meeting. Speaking during a press briefing, Wamatangi said that he will work with MCAs to enhance service delivery. He said that the county government of Kiambu will protect the interests of Wanjiku by working with all elected leaders. He maintained that there was not much difference between him and MCAs noting that it was just a misunderstanding. "We have resolved with MCAs that we will work together and consult each other whenever the need arises," Wamatangi said. He promised to fulfil all the campaign promises and incorporate every elected leader. He further said that the county will allocate bursaries to MCAs at the end of January. Joe Kigara, Ngenda ward MCA and leader of the minority parties said that they have agreed to work together and help the governor to create a proper framework. He noted that they will be having frequent meetings to end any row that might occur. "We will work with the governor and ensure that Wanjiku gets the services deserved," he said. David Choi, Ndumberi MCA, said that there was no fight from the assembly to an executive as was widely speculated on Monday. He noted that the meeting with the governor was essential as it helped to set the record straight. He said that as MCAs, they will work together and ensure that they accord Wamatangi the support needed. "We need inclusivity in our county and that's why we needed to have a meeting with the governor and solve any issue," he said.