AFC Leopards head coach, Patrick Aussems, has condemned his charges for failing to defeat bitter rivals Gor Mahia at Nyayo Stadium on Sunday. The Belgian gaffer expressed displeasure at the outcome of the action-packed Mashemeji derby, which ended in a barren draw. "I'm a little disappointed that we didn't get the most points this afternoon. We were the better team because we created the most opportunities and dominated the play," Aussems said. "When you can't win, you have to keep a clean sheet, and that's exactly what we've been doing for the better part of the season." Gor's coach Jonathan McKinstry lauded his charges for displaying great character in the match, whose outcome fired them to second on the log with 24 points, three adrift of leaders Nzoia Sugar. McKinstry said the derby lived up to its billing. "I think it was a fair result and a really good game of football. Each team played excellent football. We were on top for the majority of the first half, but we had to defend a lot in the final ten minutes," McKinstry said. "We came into the game looking forward to winning but it's another point to our collection. We are looking forward to winning our next games and then finishing at the top of the league," he added. A rasping shot from 25 yards out by Austin Odhiambo almost broke the deadlock in the 10th minute. K'Ogalo's brilliant display of crisp passes nearly paid off in the 20th minute when Boniface Omondi picked out Benson Omalla with a pinpoint pass. However, Leopards centre-back Robert Mudenyi thwarted the move as the striker prepared to hurry the ball into the gaping net with custodian Levis Opiyo already out of position. Three minutes before the break, the Nigerian forward, Ojo Olaniyi, missed an outstanding chance to give Leopards the lead when he feebly headed Peter Thiongo's cross into Gad Mathew's waiting hands. Thirsty for a goal, Leopards made another inroad into Gor's territory on the stroke of halftime when Cliff Nyakeya's long-range effort from 20 yards out forced Mathew into a full-stretch save. Centre referee, Josephine Kamau was forced to halt play for nearly three minutes after Gor defender Paul Otieno was hit in the shins. After the break, AFC Leopards emerged from the tunnel looking more dangerous, and it wasn't long before they threatened K'Ogalo's goalmouth. Brian Wanyama pounced on Victor Omune's neat pass, but his thunderous drive on the edge of the box was parried away by goalkeeper Mathew for a fruitless corner. In a frantic effort to dictate the proceedings, Leopards coach, Patrick Aussems made a change in his squad, introducing Moses Oundo for the off-colour Omune. His Gor counterpart McKinstry responded with a double substitution, bringing on John Macharia and Peter Lwassa for Austin Odhiambo and Boniface Omondi, respectively. His decision almost immediately bore fruit as the fresh legs made incessant inroads into Leopard territory. Leopards had a chance on the counter in the end-to-end game, and Mathew was called in to save Jaffary Owiti's effort from the right channel. The outcome leaves Leopards eighth on the log with 18 points. In another match scheduled for the day, Bandari edged Nairobi Stars 2-1 at Mbaraki Stadium.