A computerised tomography scan machine has been installed at Homa Bay Teaching and Referral Hospital. The  Sh45 million machine will reduce the high cost of seeking medical services. Residents have been travelling to Kisumu, Kisii and as far as Eldoret to get services. On Wednesday, Homa Bay Governor Gladys Wanga unveiled the CT scan machine and opened the newly built outpatient unit at the hospital. The governor said the equipment is aimed at improving health services in Homa Bay. She said the lack of a CT scan machine is a problem which had bedevilled residents for many years. “Absence of CT scan machines has denied residents a lot of medical services in the county. I’m happy residents with complicated illnesses will now be served,” Wanga said. Addressing residents at the hospital, the governor urged them to access CT scan services. She urged them to register for the National Hospital Insurance Fund. The new outpatient unit was constructed and equipped at Sh26 million. The hospital stands a chance to be upgraded to Level 5. Wanga said the key priority of her administration is the improvement of health services. “Let residents enrol for NHIF to help them access medication at an affordable cost,” she said. Resident Kennedy Addams said they are happy the machine has been installed. He said the machine is going to cushion them from the high cost of transporting patients to hospitals in other counties. Addams said they normally get difficulties in moving with patients to other counties. “I’m grateful that my patient who normally travels to other counties for CT scan services will now access this hospital,” Addams said. The county assembly speaker Julius Gaya said they will cooperate with the county executive to boost service delivery to residents. “As the county assembly, we want to provide a conducive environment for the implementation of development projects,” Gaya said. CT scan machine combines a series of X-ray images taken from different angles around the body and uses computer processing to create cross-sectional images of the bones, blood vessels and soft tissues inside the body. Images through CT scans have more-detailed information which makes it easy to identify diseases.