Krish Shah and Maryam Mwakitawa were a cut above the rest during the sixth leg of the U.S. Golf Kids Nairobi Local Tour that ended on Sunday at Sigona Golf Club. Shah emerged winner in the boys' 15-18 years' category having carded 81 gross. He was followed by Kevin Anyien and Hansil Tank who finished in second and third positions with 82 and 85 respectively. Mwakitawa beat a strong competition in the girls' category to take the crown having returned a score of 81 gross. Chesire Wachira was second The tournament attracted 163 budding golfers. The junior golfers aged between 5 -18 years took part in the tournament which is jointly organized by the Junior Golf Foundation, and the U.S. Kids Golf Association and supported by NCBA Group. Shashwat Harish and Junaid Manji were the stars in the 13-14 years category having finished with 77 and 79 points respectively to claim first and second positions as Kayden Wissanji managed the third spot. At the same time, Trevvy Mungai, Ivan Kumutai, Niam Shah, Adam Nesbitt, Shuhan Peng, Mwathi Gicheru, and Andrew Gathere claimed the top spots in the six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, and twelve years categories respectively. Audrey Gachora claimed the top spot in the girls' 13-14 years category after scoring 82. She was followed by Navya Nagda and Hena Shah who came in second and third having posted 90 and 95 respectively. Meanwhile, Nkini Pasha was the star among the 11-12-year-olds while Kanana Muthomi earned bragging rights among the 9-10 year-olds. At the same time, Wairimu Koi was the champion of the day among the under-eight-year-old girls. Ryan Otuka of NBCA said: “The great competitive atmosphere witnessed gives us reason to be hopeful for the future of Kenyan golf. This new generation will no doubt take Kenyan golf to the next level and we, therefore, commit to continue supporting these tournaments.” He added: “The fact that this competition has brought together over 160 golfers shows the great reception of the tournament among the juniors. The tour now heads to Vetlab Sports Club for the penultimate leg on January 15." 