A candidate in the recent Garissa township constituency by-election has termed it a sham and highly corrupted. Speaking to the press in Garissa town on Monday for the first time since the exercise ended, ODM Candidate Abdifaisal Amin described the exercise as one that was rigged and already had a predetermined outcome. In the results that were announced by constituency returning officer Abdi Yunis, Dekow Mohamed Barrow of the ruling party United Democratic Party (UDA) was declared the winner after garnering 11,572 votes against close challenger Nasir Dolal who got 8,158 votes. Ibrahim Malow of Narc Kenya got 840 votes, Abdifaisal Amin (ODM) managed 447 while former Fafi MP Abdikarim Osman of DP got 59 and Muhiadin Abdirashid of DAP-Kenya garnered 20 votes. The by-election was characterized by a low voter turnout, with the returning officer saying out of 53,253 registered voters only 21,218 voters came out to vote which translates to 39.84 per cent. “All kinds of deceptive and malicious acts were used to arrive at 21,000 votes, presumably cast in the lowest turnout. It's unlikely to have 24,000 to have voted in the main general election of August 2022,” said Amin. “I found it baffling when a majority of Garissa voters choose not to cast their votes unless a candidate pays a small token to exchange for their most powerful right to institute a change of the status quo. Personally, I really meant good for the people of Garissa and sooner or later they will realize who was a project and who was aided against the wish of the majority." He also took issue with the hacking of his account by people he described as his political opponents on the material day purporting that he had stepped down for the UDM candidate Nassir Mohamed Dolal saying that the act confused his voters resulting in his loss. “I am confident we were a great force and launched a formidable campaign about real issues affecting Garissa people. But from where I seat, I will no longer term the election as a By-election, but rather a Buy and Sell election to the detriment of Garissa voters who will suffer in the next five years by selling their civil rights. There was no legitimacy in the just-ended election but I guess no one cares since it's part of the trade-in Garissa politics,” he said. Addressing journalists after he was declared winner Dekow thanked supporters and UDA and its leadership saying they had given full support to deliver the seat. He also acknowledged his competitors saying they had put up spirited and gruelling campaigns in the seat. “I take this opportunity to thank Allah and the people of Garissa Township for electing me as their next Mp. I assure the people of Garissa that I will be their voice in and outside the parliament for those who were elected and those who didn’t,” he said. Dekow commended the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission for what he said was conducting free, fair and credible elections while acknowledging the work of security agencies for keeping order throughout the elections. “I take this opportunity to thank my Party and its leadership particularly President William Ruto for their strong support during this tough period,” he said. The UDM candidate conceded defeat congratulating Dekow for his victory.