Coach Salim Babu believes Nzoia Sugar have the potential to win the Kenyan Premier League title, if only they maintain their impressive form. The Bungoma-based millers have been on a roll in their six matches this season, winning four and losing only once. Their impressive run has them second on the log with 13 points, two behind defending champions Tusker and Babu is confident they can upset the form book despite their underdog status. "I've asked my players to stay focused and work hard so that we can remain in the top three for the rest of the season," Babu said in an exclusive interview on Tuesday. "Doing so will relieve the pressure that comes with the second leg and allow us to compete for the title." Nzoia's pre-eminence over their rivals is no accident. They've been dominating possession with a dazzling display of crisp passes that leave fans enthralled. Babu claims that his firm belief in his players' abilities is finally bearing fruit. Originally brought in to save the team from relegation, he has now gone above and beyond. "When I first joined the team last year, our main goal was to avoid relegation. We were successful. Because I saw potential in the squad members, I didn't think it was necessary to overhaul the team during the last transfer window," said Babu. "I'm glad our patience and hard work is finally paying off." Babu, a seasoned tactician who previously led Western Stima in the top-flight league — has urged his players to rise to the occasion against Bidco United at Thika Stadium Wednesday afternoon. "As we prepare to play Bidco United on Wednesday, I'm asking the boys to give it their all so that we can get maximum points, which will keep our title hopes alive," Babu said. In other matches scheduled for the day, Sofapaka face Talanta at Moi Stadium, Kasarani Annex. Defending champions Tusker host Vihiga Bullets at Ruaraka Complex in  Nairobi while Kenya Police have a date with Wazito at Kasarani Annex. A clash between Bandari and Posta Rangers is scheduled for Mbaraki Stadium in Mombasa while an encounter between Ulinzi Stars and Mathare United will take place at Ulinzi Sports Complex. Kariobangi Sharks travel to Bukhungu Stadium for a mouthwatering clash with Kakamega Homeboyz. As record champions Gor Mahia meet KCB at Nyayo Stadium, their arch-rivals AFC Leopards will face Nairobi City Stars at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Gor Mahia, who currently sit fourth on the log with 10 points, are eager to reclaim the title they won in 2019.