The inaugural Cross Border International Marathon will be held on March 26 along the Kenya/Tanzania border. The race will start in Sirari, Tanzania, through Isebania and finish in Tanzania and will feature 2.5km, 5km, 10km, and 21km races, said the race director Frank Joash.  There will also be wheelchair races for the disabled. Registration fee for the 21km elite race is Sh1,600 with all registered individuals entitled to a t-shirt, medal and wristband, added Joash. “We are working with Athletics Kenya and Athletics Tanzania to make the event a success,” said Joash. He said they are still working on the cash awards. “We have written to several potential sponsors. Once we get feedback, we shall announce the cash awards for the top 10 athletes in each category,” said Joash, who is also the principal of Tarime Vocational Training College. "We shall invite elite and amateur athletes from Kenya to take part in the races." Joash spoke to reporters at Tendere Sports Ground in Kisii during the Nyanza South cross country championships on Monday. He said the event will be a culmination of a week-long business expo involving businessmen from Kenya and Tanzania. The organisers have already enlisted Paul Machoka and Teresa Omosa, who won the senior men and women’s 10km events at Tendere. The race is aimed at enhancing integration between Kenyans and Tanzanians. In addition, Joash added the event is aimed at enhancing peace and raising awareness against Female Genital Mutilation. At the same time, Migori County director of sports Hellen Okomo has announced plans to develop athletics in the county. “Our county is endowed with sprinters but they have not been identified and exposed. I want to assure you that next time we come here, we shall give you a run for your money,” she said during the Nyanza South cross country championships. For the first time, Migori County fielded a full team during the regional event. Dennis Moronge, running barefoot, finished an impressive fourth in the senior men’s 10km race.