If you are reading this, you probably made it to the new year. Congratulations are in order and Happy New Year greetings. The last time I was here, I talked about New Year’s resolutions and how I would be looking at what I want to achieve differently. On January 1, I made a list of my main goals. I put together a vision board so I could have a clearer picture of what I want right in front of me (I have it on my phone, which never departs from my company). Anyway, I realised that a lot of the things I want revolve around being at peace and regaining my work-life balance. Which is Millennial and Gen Z-speak for work is not everything, or you need to get a life outside of work. That would give me enough time to take care of my mental health, which was very questionable in 2022. It would also give me more time to get to know myself all over again and rediscover the things and people who used to bring me joy. That’s the other thing I love about my generation. We love to know and understand ourselves deeper. I don’t think any other generation can say that they have hacked self-awareness like us. Okay, let’s just say that maybe, we like to put more effort into knowing and understanding ourselves than older generations did. In fact, some of us like to over-do it, to the point of being obsessed with self-awareness. I have no problem with that at all because we are complex and diverse beings who keep evolving, and the person we were last year may not exactly be the same person we are going to be this year. It’s this self-awareness that alerts us to many things in our lives, including the sate of our mental health. You may have noticed that some people around you are talking more openly about their mental state, saying things like, “I get anxious when…” or “I get triggered by…” I usually take that as a good sign that the person is quite self-aware and in tune with themselves. Not everyone can fully comprehend why they do certain things or why they behave in certain ways either when they are alone, with friends, family or even in relationships. What I wish we, as a super self-aware generation, were doing more of is going beyond just being self-aware. “Okay, so you know that when you get triggered by certain events or interactions, you can fall into depression. And then what next?” More of us need to be doing something with our self-awareness than just broadcasting it to the world. Myself included. I know I made a case for therapy last year, saying it is actually cheaper than we might think but maybe it is also more vital than we could imagine. Some things we just cannot figure out without professional help or some kind of intervention. Being self-aware is like having a cheat sheet to life, and if we cannot fully understand the questions being asked of us, then what point is there in having the Mwakenya in the first place? I hope I’m making sense.