Marsabit Governor Mohamud Ali on Tuesday nominated 24 county chief officers who will be presented to the county assembly for vetting and approval. In a press statement read by the county secretary, Governor Mohamud stated that the qualified and experienced nominees were vigorously and procedurally nominated. "The nomination of these chief officers was done competitively by the public service board, putting into consideration regional and gender balance as enshrined in the constitution and have confidence that they are fit for the job," the governor said. The positions were advertised on October 17, 2022, by the public service board where 101 applicants were interviewed and the list of 72 candidates was presented to the governor for consideration. "My office carefully considered the suitability of the recommended candidate keeping in mind their qualifications and affirmative action," he said The governor said he nominated for appointment candidates that were ranked highest by the county public service board after the interviews. The county chief insisted that those nominated for the positions were not his political cronies but competent individuals. The governor expressed confidence that his nominees will pass the vetting at the county assembly so that they can immediately embark on implementing his administration development agenda for the people of Marsabit. Governor Ali through an executive order made changes in the governance structure and increased the number of chief officers from 19 to 24 for effective service delivery. Youth leader Abdiaziz Boru commended the governor saying he considered different tribes in his bid to build cohesion. "We thank the governor for sticking to his promise of including all communities in his administration,"Boru said. He, however, asked the governor to consider competent young people who can help him deliver for the people. The nominated chief officers include seven women. Former director of Public Participation Ms Orge Guyo Baji(Food security and crop), Kula Phabbi(Fisheries Development), Ms Qabale Adhi Bulbul (Education), Ms Guyatu Wakala(Skills development and vocational training), Ms Samuela Lolokuru(Culture, gender and social services), Ms Pauline Marheni(Natural resources and wildlife)  and Gender Anamaria Qalla Denge(Public works). Four of the 19 previous chief officers were retained by the governor. They include Mohamed Tache(ICT, communications and results delivery), Rikoi Hitler (Transport and roads), Tache Elema)Partner coordination) and Ms Lolokuru. Former deputy county secretary Wolde Weisa was nominated chief officer of Revenue and resource mobilisation while former North-Horr sub ounty administrator Roba Qotto got CCO for public service and Devolved units. Two pioneer chief officers Arero Halkano and Abdullahi Sheikh Ismail were nominated for Livestock and veterinary services and Environment  respectively. In the finance docket, Governor Mohamud nominated Boru Duba Dulacha for Finance and Ahmed Intallo Yussuf for Economic planning and budget. Otherare Alamin Adan(Medical health services and Omar Boko Mohamed (Public health services). Godfrey Godana was appointed Principal Administrative Secretary.