Fast-rising golfer Naomi Waful has described the upcoming 2023 Magical Kenya Ladies Open as a beacon of hope for Kenyan women players "The Magical Kenya Ladies Open is an important event for Kenyan women golfers. It gives us the opportunity to compete at a high level and prove that women can excel in professional sports," said Wafula, one of the top Kenyan golfers participating in the tournament. She added: “It is an important step in advancing the careers of Kenyan women golfers and I am honoured to be a part of it. I am excited to compete with some of the best players in the world and to showcase my talent on the international stage. I look forward to representing my country and making a strong showing at this prestigious tournament." Mercy Nyanchama, another top Kenyan golfer participating in the tournament, added, "The tournament serves as a symbol of hope and inspiration for young women looking to break into the sports industry. It shows that there is a place for them in the competitive world of professional sports. “I believe this tournament is a significant step forward for Kenyan women golfers. It provides a platform for us to showcase our talent and compete at the highest level. I am confident this event will inspire the next generation of Kenyan female golfers to pursue their dreams and achieve great success in the sport," she added. EABL's Anne-Joy Michir said their sponsorship of the tournament is a powerful commitment toward promoting inclusion and diversity in sports. "We are proud to support the 2023 Magical Kenya Ladies Open and the talented female golfers participating in the tournament. Our sponsorship aligns perfectly with Johnnie Walker’s brand purpose to inspire people to take bold steps and Keep Walking. We look forward to watching these athletes compete and inspire future generations of female golfers,” said Michira. The Magical Kenya Ladies Open will take place from February 2-5 at  Vipingo Ridge, Kilifi County, and will feature some of the top female golfers from Kenya and around the world. 