Vihiga Queens' coach Boniface Nyamunyamu wants his players to adopt the big stage mentality and strife to defend their title following a dreadful show in the 4-1 loss to Thika Queens on Sunday. He asked his fringe players to rise to the occasion when it matters most and defend their badge. Nyamunyamu said they are now counting on the players who have had limited playing time owing to their lean squad after the recent exodus of players in search of greener pastures. The duo of Shalyne Ikalakala and Ruth Khasoha had a rough time in defence as Vihiga conceded all the goals via counterattack, according to Nyamunyamu. The former Cecafa Club champions have built their success on solid defending for the last five years but cracks are now starting to show after losing stalwarts Phoebe Owiti, Enez Mango and Vivian Nasaka to professional stints. The trio was integral as the Vihiga county government-sponsored romped to four WPL titles in five seasons. "It is tough to incorporate new players into the team especially for a big match because they can't handle the pressure," Nyamunyamu admitted in an exclusive interview. He added: "The young players must also learn from these setbacks in order to develop their game. We panicked defensively and conceded two quick-fire goals in the first half and the trend continued in the second as well." Merceline Oginga and Anne Norah who missed action against Thika because of illness and injury respectively, are expected back to training this week. "We only have 16 players at the moment. We rely on everyone to take the team forward. This was just a minor setback I believe but we will return in a big way. We have Ulinzi Starlets this weekend at Mumias, we have to be super ready." Commenting on the Ulinzi match Nyamunyamu added: "It will be tough. The soldiers have lost twice in a row. Losing for a third consecutive time will be detrimental. We can't afford to drop points against them. It will be a pulsating encounter." Vihiga lead the standings with 16 points—two more than second—placed Nakuru City Queens with 14 after seven matches.  Gaspo Women are third with 12 points with a game in hand. High-flying Bunyore and Thika also have 12 points to rank fourth and fifth respectively. Winless Kayole Starlets remain bottom with zero points.