The Council of Governors chairperson Anne Waiguru has urged IEBC to carry out an intensive assessment of the 2022 general election to inform the conduct of the next electoral cycle. Speaking during the Post-Election Evaluation forum hosted by IEBC on Monday, Waiguru said there was a need to look at what worked, what failed and the lessons learnt. "Look at all that to come up with recommendations that will inform the strategies to be employed to make the 2027 general election successful," she said. Congratulating the IEBC for conducting free and fair elections, the governor said the post-election evaluation is a key activity that marks the end of one electoral cycle and the beginning of another one. “This assessment is based on the commission’s strategic plan, election operations plan and international best practices in election management,” she said. The forum was attended by Chief Justice Martha Koome, Speaker of the National Assembly Moses Wetang'ula, Speaker of the Senate Amason Kingi, Attorney General Justin Muturi and other dignitaries including high commissioners and heads of various institutions. Waiguru said governors, being agents of peace in their respective counties had lived up to their pre-election pledge of fully supporting the IEBC and other agencies throughout the electioneering period. She said the evaluation that has been concluded is expected to build on the 2027 evaluation and is expected to outline the lessons learnt, findings and recommendations and how they informed the 2022 elections. The governor called on all the stakeholders to reflect and take stock of what happened in the previous elections and most importantly on the just concluded elections to as help improve the conduct of the next polls. “It is often not comfortable to subject self to scrutiny but it is the only way that one can grow. Remaining transparent and accountable is key and indeed, the hallmark of good governance and the foundation of the Constitution,” she said. She said some of the fundamental issues and critical areas that needed to be addressed included legal, policy and administrative frameworks that will inform and guide the activities of IEBC in the conduct of free and fair elections.