Gospel musician William Getumbe caused yet another surprise in Eldoret when he put on diapers and launched a sensitization campaign on President William Ruto's call for Kenyans to plant 15 billion trees. Getumbe teamed up with medical college student Faith Chepchumba and whistled on the streets while carrying banners with messages on the tree planting initiative. The campaign attracted many people especially along the main Uganda Highway in the town. "We have been encouraged by the President’s message on the need for Kenyans to plant trees so that we improve our environment and deal with climate change effects. "The environment is about our health and that's why we have partnered to spread the presidential message on tree planting", Getumbe said. Getumbe said health and the environment are key issues in Ruto's agenda hence the need for Kenyans to come out and support the tree planting initiative. "Some of the diseases affecting Kenyans are as a result of environmental degradation. With a good environment we will improve our health as a nation," Getumbe said. Chepchumba said she had also been touched by President Ruto's call on tree planting hence her decision to come out and sensitize. She is from Elgeyo Marakwet County and is a medical student at Siaya MTC. "I come from Elgeyo Marakwet but Uasin Gishu is one of the counties with a low forest cover hence our move to campaign in Eldoret so that residents here can plant trees," Chepchumba said. Getumbe and Chepchumba called on the government to ensure it gives out adequate seedlings ahead of the rains. Last week Getumbe was on the streets to sensitize the public on cancer diseases, Fistula and other lifestyle ailments. Getumbe suffers from male fistula complications which have forced him to always wear diapers. He attracted huge crowds as residents sort to know why he was putting on diapers. He explained that he had for several years been suffering from the free passage of urine forcing him to wear diapers. "I decided to come out and use my situation to sensitize the public because I know there are many people suffering from such but they suffer stigma in silence instead of coming out to speak and be helped," Getumbe said. Getumbe who is a father of two said he had talked to his wife and children who had accepted his situation. "There are those who don't want to speak out about it and are abandoned by their families and community yet they can be assisted to get treatment or any other help," he said. He said he was also using his gospel music and church's sermons to sensitize Kenyans to the diseases. He urged the government to strengthen the health system and focus on such diseases or health complications which affect many people. "We urge the president to ensure that items like diapers are cheap so that they can be easily accessed by those of us suffering from fistula complications,"  Getumbe said.