Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro has hit out at the Azimio leadership over planned rally slated for tomorrow. Speaking during a church service in Kirinyaga on Sunday, the legislature instead called the Azimio leader Raila Odinga to ensure his family is at the forefront of the planned rallies and demonstrations. Nyoro said President William Ruto cannot be intimidated or coerced by calls for demonstrations, adding Raila’s plan was to extract personal benefits by calling for the demonstrations. “Wewe uite maandmano hata kesho lakini kama maandamao ni kitu ya manufaa na kabisa unaezakuza uchumi ya kenya na maandamano, kesho tukuone na jamii yako kwanza msitari wa meble mkipeleka hiyo maandamano mbele,” Nyoro said. He said calls for rallies and demonstrations will not intimidate the President but further challenged the Azimio brigade to ensure businesses are not affected during the rally. “…na kwa hiyo mandamno mimi nitakuombea ruhusa hata kwa Rais wetu ikiwezekana hata serikali ipelekee watu maji pale, na hata soda wakiandamana wanakunywa kidogo wanarudi maandamano,” he said. This is translated to mean, ‘I will ask for permission from our President if possible the government to take water and sodas there so that the demonstrators can take as they continue with their demonstrations’. Nyoro further called on the opposition chief to learn from the leadership late South African leader Nelson Mandela. Azimio leader is expected to issue a compressive statement on Monday on claims by a whistleblower that the 9 August 2022 presidential election was rigged. His spokesman Dennis Onyango said Raila will issue the statement at a rally in Kamkunji Grounds in Nairobi upon his arrival from South Africa. In a statement to newsrooms, Onyango said Raila is expected to land at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport at 11 am and thereafter proceed to Kamkunji for the People’s Baraza. “Odinga appeals to Kenyans to show up in large numbers at the Kamkunji Baraza in the interest of the country,” the statement said. Raila has been out of the country for slightly over a week having left the country on January 13 for South Africa.