Members of the National Assembly have started arriving at the coast ahead of a week-long induction workshop set to begin on Monday. The induction session will take place between January 23, 2023 to January 28, 2023. According to the programme released by the Office of the Clerk, the legislators are expected to arrive at the Pride Inn Paradise Beach Resort, Convention Centre and Spa by Sunday evening. The legislators will be inducted on the role of committees in carrying out their mandate as provided for under the Standing Orders. Article 124 (1) of the Constitution mandates Parliament to establish Committees. Parliamentary Committees act as agents of the House in discharging its legislative, oversight and representation functions under Article 95 of the Constitution. National Assembly Speaker Moses Wetangula had earlier stated that having been nominated to various Committees of the House, Members are expected to be conversant with their roles in the Committees as they enhance the roles of the National Assembly in oversight, legislative, and representation as provided for under Article 95 of the Constitution. “The main purpose of the induction retreat is to give Members of various Committees the tools that they need to discharge their Constitutional mandate of representation, oversight, and legislation effectively and efficiently,” he said The programme will provide participants with an opportunity to be taken through the place of Committees in the National Assembly and the roles of Members of Parliament in their respective Committees. Also, Wetangula said that the relationship between Parliament and key stakeholders will be a topic covered in the programme. The Speaker reckoned that MPs will also be taken through the corrective measures being undertaken by Parliament in ensuring that the future of the National Government Constituency Development Fund is assured. "The status of the National Government Constituencies Development Fund which is one of the issues that is being widely discussed in the country given the impact the Fund has had in the lives of Kenyans, especially of those from mashinani," Wetangula added. NGCDF- BOARD Chief Executive officer Yusuf Mbuno is expected to give the MPs status update on disbursements and the court cases that have plagued the fund. Deputy Speaker Gladys Shollei, who will officially open the workshop highlighted that the program has been tailor-made to provide MPs with insights into parliamentary practice and procedure, the Committee system, the mandates of the respective Committees, Powers and Privileges of Committees. This had been provided for in Article 125 of the Constitution which states Parliament's General Procedures and Rules. “The participants will also have a platform to learn about the relationship between Committees and key stakeholders and how to leverage these strategic partnerships for effective oversight,” Shollei said. She added that the engagement with no doubt will lead to a very enriching program. Clerk of the National Assembly Samuel Njoroge reckoned that induction has also incorporated carefully selected resource persons from within the country, across the Commonwealth and parts of the world who have a wealth of knowledge on the operations of the Committees. “It is intended that these resource persons will share their experiences with the participants, including the lessons learned while interacting with House Committees,” he said. Among the topics to be discussed include, The place of Committees in the National Assembly and their effectiveness, Summary of the Performance Report of Committees of the 12th Parliament, Conduct of Committee Business in the House, Budget Policy Statement, Budget Estimates, and Budget Implementation Review by Committees and the nexus with the Budget and Appropriations Committee and Audit Committees.