The stage is all set for the next edition of Kenya's most cherished and hyped football showpiece, the Mashemeji derby. Kenyan Premier League traditional giants Gor Mahia and AFC Leopards will be straining their nerves for bragging rights at Nyayo Stadium on Sunday. As D-day draws closer, fans of both clubs are already embroiled in endless banter, each vowing to sweep the board. Gor enter the match with the upper hand, having had an impressive run in the league that has catapulted them to fourth place thus far. And, while Leopards have recently been a pale shadow of their former selves, it would be suicidal for their arch-rivals to regard them as sitting ducks. Despite having played more matches than Gor, their dismal run has placed them ninth in the table. Since their first meeting on May 5, 1968, the two clubs have been bitter rivals, but Leopards have yet to defeat Gor in the last seven games. However, Ingwe head coach Patrick Aussems has vowed to stem the K'Ogalo tide, adding that his charges made their intentions clear when they clawed Kenya Police 1-0 in their last encounter at Nyayo Stadium on Wednesday. "Beating Kenya Police gave us the much-needed confidence boost going into the derby," Aussems said. “We are eager to break our jinx in the derby and beat Gor because it has been a long time since we won a match against them,” he added. Gor Mahia head coach Jonathan McKinstry expects his team to shine in the derby after a string of impressive performances in recent weeks. "I'm glad the players we brought in from the youth team are already gelling with their senior teammates and getting things done. "Industrious captain Philemon Otieno has predicted an exciting match and warned his teammates not to rest on their laurels. "We have prepared well and we are ready for the match. We have maintained an impressive run in our league matches so far, so there is nothing to worry us too much about our opponents," Otieno said. Coastal side, Bandari, hosts Nairobi City Stars at Mbaraki grounds in Mombasa in the other league match scheduled for the day. On Saturday, Posta Rangers will clash with Talanta at Thika Stadium. Mathare United have a date with Kakamega Homeboyz at Ruaraka Complex in Nairobi. Kariobangi Sharks will face Bidco at Kasarani Annex in Nairobi while Sofapaka will battle out with Vihiga Bullets at Kasarani Annex, Nairobi. KCB travel to Kisumu to dare Wazito at Muhoroni Stadium, Kisumu as Ulinzi Stars and Nzoia Sugar flex muscles at Ulinzi Sports Complex, Nairobi. Leaders, Tusker, will face an acid test against a rejuvenated Kenya Police side at Moi Stadium, Kasarani.