Kilifi county is set to unveil a new department which will coordinate all the programmes from donor partners and private sector to avoid duplication of projects. Governor Gideon Mung’aro said the department which will be launched soon shall ensure the funds received from donors are well utilised instead of different partners doing the same thing. He was speaking after signing a Memorandum of Understanding with World Vision Kenya which has an annual budget of Sh480 million for various projects in Kilifi. “We want to coordinate it in a way that we can work together with all the partners to do major things which will change the lives of our people,” the governor said. Mung’aro thanked World Vision Kenya for working in the county for 15 years, adding that he worked with them when he was Malindi MP and they supported much on agriculture, health, water, education and child protection. He said the organisation had also launched a maternity wing project in Ganze constituency. The county chief also said going forward in 2023-2024, World Vision would spend Sh480 million and assured them that they would work together so as to ensure they implement projects together in a bigger way to make impact. World Vision Kenya national director Gilbert Kamanga said they were very excited to sign the MOU as it puts them at another level of working together with Kilifi county. He said as World Vision is child-focused, they want to see the benefits of investments in the county to uplift the wellbeing of children. “Therefore, with this MoU we want to ensure that we are managing our programmes together with your government, that we plan together, we implement together, we monitor together as we have been doing with other counties where World Vision is working,” Kamanga said. World Vision Kenya operations director Miriam Mbembe  said their desire is to formalise and have a mutual partnership that takes their working in Kilifi as an organisation to greater heights. She said their aim is to start the planning together with the county, implement together and look into the partnership to bring in more like-minded partners on board in terms of investment. “We are actually here to commit that we are here to co-invest in Kilifi county...to ensure the people are receiving more services because together we are able to do much more,” Mbembe said.  (edited by Amol Awuor)