Despite losing the FIA African Rally Championship (ARC) title on the homestretch to Zambian Leroy Gomes, Karan Patel literally established a scintillating reputation as one of the continent’s fastest men on four wheels. This was after he settled for second overall position in Africa behind the wheel of a Ford Fiesta Rally2 (the former R5) before claiming a maiden Kenya National Rally Championship (KNRC) title. And although Karan’s African title bid came a cropper, due to the muddy gremlins at the Pearl of Africa Uganda Rally and a ‘no-show’ in the season-opening Bandama Rallye of Côte d’Ivoire, he garnered a total of 11 wins both in Kenya (7) and at continental level (4). Meanwhile, McRae Kimathi’s podium finish during the ARC season-ender in Lusaka handed him the ARC3 title whilst Hamza Anwar’s fourth-place finish saw him win the ARC Junior title. Patel brothers win big It was double celebration for the Patel family as Karan’s younger sibling, Kush Patel, racked up a maiden KNRC double in Division 2 and Group S classes. Karan also supplemented the Division One title with his KNRC overall Championship victory. Another season double was accomplished by Leonardo Varese, who sealed his sixth title in the Two Wheel Drive category — over and above — his Division 3 championship success. Varese finished fourth overall on the KNRC log in an underpowered 1600cc 2WD Toyota Arius — behind Karan, Jasmeet Chana (eventual Group N champion) and Kush. After beating Chana in a two-horse race for the KNRC overall title, Karan said: “Winning my first KNRC title is definitely something to cherish and remember for the rest of my life. I’m sure that’s the same with the rest of the team. We have worked really hard from 2014, when we joined rallying.” He is already focusing on 2023, especially after signing for Red Bull. “The idea will be to try and do all races; the ARC and KNRC and maybe a few in the European circuit,” said Karan. Winning the season-closing ARC Zambia Rally in Lusaka earned Karan the coveted LG SJAK Sports Personality of the month of October, though his major breakthrough came when the former East African 85cc Motocross Champion signed a deal to become Kenya’s first Red Bull athlete. After sealing the KNRC title, the motocross convert spent three days in Finland with Toyota Gazoo Racing WRT in their championship celebration and pre-season test where he impressed winter instructors. Safari does it again On another positive note, and for the second time running, Safari Rally Kenya emerged as the most attractive WRC event on TV with an increased uptake on social and mainstream media. A report from the championship’s commercial rights holder, the WRC Promoter, indicated that the 2022 Safari out-performed last year’s edition by five million page impressions on Facebook. McRae, Maxine make history On the global stage, McRae Kimathi became the first Kenyan to enter the FIA Junior WRC and only the fourth African driver to ever compete in the category. He also became the first Kenyan to rally on snow in Rally Sweden. McRae finished sixth overall in both the WRC Junior and WRC3 championships. In Naivasha, Maxine Wahome became the first woman in history to win the WRC3 (WRC’s third tier category) during the Safari where she won by 25 minutes and 27s, and finished the event 16th overall, one place behind the then M-Sport Rally1 driver Gus Greensmith. Maxine beat former BRDC British Formula 3 driver Jeremy Wahome [no relation] while Kimathi sealed an all-Kenyan podium. Kalle fulfils family dream Kalle Rovanpera once again proved the class of the field as the 21-year-old completed 19 brutal gravel Safari stages (363.44km) to take his fourth win from six events then thus fulfilling his family’s dream after his dad Harri had only managed second place on the Safari 20 years ago. Only six of 12 WRC Rally1 cars completed the full rally distance in what proved to be the toughest event of the season by far. Kajetan Kajetanowicz scored a career-best result to win the WRC2 on Safari and move top of the championship standings. The Pole, competing in Africa for the first time, led from start to finish of the gruelling four-day fixture in a Škoda Fabia Rally2.  KNRC WINNERS KMSC Il-Bisil: Karan Patel RVMSC Nakuru: Karan Patel ARC Equator: Karan Patel EASR Eldoret: Karan Patel Safari KNRC: Carl ‘Flash’ Tundo NRG Nanyuki: Karan Patel MMC Bamba Rally: Raaji Singh Bharij RSC Machakos: Karan Patel SUC Guru Nanak: Karan Patel  FIA ARC WINNERS Rallye Bandama Ivory Coast: Leroy Gones (Zambia) Equator Kenya: Karan Patel (Kenya) Rally Tanzania: Karan Patel Pearl of Africa Uganda Rally :Jas Mangat (UG) Rwanda Mountain Gorilla Rally: Karan Patel (Kenya) Zambia International Rally: Karan Patel  WRC SAFARI RALLY KENYA WINNERS WRC3 : Maxine Wahome (Kenya) WRC2 : Kajetan Kajetanowicz (Poland)) WRC Overall: Kalle Rovanoera (Finland)  MINI CLASSIC Remon Vos (The Netherlands)  AUTOCROSS CHAMPIONS 2WD NT car: Sameer Nanji 2WD NT Buggy-Gurraj Singh 4WD T-Eric Bengi Junior 2WD NT-Neel Gohil 2WD T-Qahim Rahim Bamboo -Karamveer S. Rooprai  KENYAN KARTING CHAMPIONS Bambino Comer - Bixente Rio Wyles Cadet-Shane Chandaria Rotax Mini Max-No Winner Rotax Junior Max-Walt Alobo Rotax Senior Max-No winner  KNRC CHAMPIONS Overall-Karan Patel Division 1-Karan Patel Division 2-Kush Patel Division 3-Leonardo Varese 2WD-Leonardo Varese Group S-Kush Patel Group NR4-Jasmeet Chana Classic- No winner SPV-No Winner  FIA Podium 1. Leroy Gomes (ZAM) 150 2. Karan Pqtel (KEN) 135 3. Hamza Anwar (KEN) 74  KNRC Podium 1. Karan Patel 233 2. Jasmeet Chana 228 3. Kush Patel 101