President William Ruto will on Friday tour Homa Bay to commission some development projects including launching the construction of affordable houses. County commissioner Moses Lilan confirmed the visit. “The president will visit the county on Friday to launch the construction of affordable houses. We received information about his coming,” Lilan said. Last November, government officials including Lands and Housing CS Zakariah Njeru and Homa Bay Governor Gladys Wanga handed over the construction site located at Makongeni estate to a contractor. National Housing Corporation officials will undertake the construction of affordable houses in Homa Bay. Necessary arrangements have been put in place for President Ruto to do groundbreaking for the project. Besides the housing project, President Ruto will officially open a municipal market in Homa Bay town. The construction of the market was funded by the national government. Other projects include the construction of a non-motorised transport system from junction Kodoyo to Makongeni through Homa pier and putting up a fish market which will be funded by the State Department of Housing. On October 2 last year, when he attended a prayer service at Africa Inland Church, Ruto said his government will put up 5000 units in Homa Bay. NHC had signed an agreement with the county government of Homa Bay to undertake construction. The houses will be put up in phases with the first phase having 110 units and will take 12 months to convert. Governor Wanga is among the leaders expected to receive the President. Information from the governor’s office said President Ruto is likely to tour some projects being undertaken by the county government. Homa Bay UDA deputy coordinator Ben Onyango welcomes the visit saying it will enhance completion and revive stalled projects to open the area for economic development. Some projects which were started by the previous administration in which Ruto served as deputy president are the Mbita-Magunga-Sori road, dredging of Mbita Bridge and completion of Kimira-Oluch irrigation scheme. The Kadel-Homa- Pala-Kanyadhiang ring road and some water projects also need to be completed. Onyango said completing the projects will not only empower residents and make them economically self-reliant. “The president has a development programme for Homa Bay people. We welcome the president because the projects are meant to empower residents,” Onyango said.