Lawyer Miguna Miguna has revealed that President William Ruto has apologised to him about his 2018 deportation to Canada. In a statement on Saturday, Miguna said he accepted the President's apology on his and the government's behalf earlier in the day. "President William Ruto, the President of the Republic of Kenya and Commander in Chief of the Defence Forces, earlier this morning apologised to me on his behalf and on behalf of the Government for the brutality inflicted upon me by the previous regime," he said. "I accept the apology." Former IEBC Commissioner Roselyn Akombe said the apology was long overdue, adding that no Kenyan should ever be subjected to similar treatment. "A long overdue apology but great that it has happened. No human being should ever be put through what Daktari Miguna Miguna went through," she said. In March 2018, Miguna was forced into exile and blocked form re-entry after the Jubilee government imposed red alerts on him making his travel impossible. It wasn't until October 2022 that he was able to fly back to Kenya after the Kenya Kwanza administration under a directive from Ruto facilitated his return. The lawyer was at loggerheads with the Jubilee administration following his role in the unofficial swearing-in of ODM leader Raila Odinga as the People’s President. Miguna claimed he was sedated and forcefully deported to Canada on March 28, 2018. "I was dragged, assaulted, drugged and forcefully flown to Dubai," Miguna wrote in a Facebook post. It was the second time he was taken out of the country to Canada followed his return after the initial deportation in February, 2018. The government insisted Miguna, who holds both Kenyan and Canadian citizenship, was not a Kenyan. Miguna claimed his passport was confiscated and destroyed the second time he was deported. The Jubilee government ignored subsequent court orders to issue him with a new passport or travel documents until Ruto took over. "The government of William Ruto and Rigathi Gachagua has lifted the Red Alerts Uhuru Kenyatta illegally imposed against me with the connivance of Raila Odinga," Miguna tweeted on October 12, 2022. "My arrival: October 20 at 6am. The Rule of law, fearlessness, persistence and focus have prevailed," he affirmed. In 2022, Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua said the President should apologise to Miguna over his deportation by the Jubilee administration, in which he served as Deputy President. "What happened was a great mistake and a great atrocity by the government of Kenya of which the current President was a happy Deputy President at that time," Karua said. "It's an action he cannot dissociate himself with," she added.