Thomas Muller’s announcement that he would continue his career in the German national team hasn’t triggered excitement on all levels. Lothar Matthaus admitted to being surprised about the 33-year-old’s decision following disappointing Fifa World Cup group exits in 2018 and 2022. The record German international recommended that Muller concentrate on his club, and referenced his own delayed international retirement. Former Bayern coach and two-time Uefa Champions League winner Ottmar Hitzfeld called Muller “one of the most influential German footballers due to his unique skills”, but asked, “if his exemplary mentality can cover the demands of two teams?” Muller might be used to outside advice but somehow learned to follow his gut feelings, which helped him build a stunning career achieving 11 Bundesliga titles and two Champions Leagues, not to mention the 2014 Fifa World Cup. As Muller enters the twilight of his playing career, intuition more than ever seems a valuable advisor for the 121-cap forward. After 641 games in Bayern’s shirt coming along with 230 goals and 249 assists, Muller, one of Germany’s most successful players, has become replaceable, and has to some extent turned into a part-time player. “I was used to an always working body, I am not used to that stop and go,” Muller admitted after having missed seven consecutive games due to injury this season. “I am still full of energy and ambition, but I don’t see the physio regularly to tell him the joke of the week,” he added. Having enjoyed a guaranteed spot in the starting 11 over years for both Germany and Bayern, Muller now faces fierce competition. “It’s on the coach to decide when, if and how. I’m very relaxed but will absolutely be there when the coach needs me,” he said, adding he wants to give things a try and is thinking about the UEFA Euro 2024, which will be hosted by Germany. “Why not, if I deliver a good performance?” he said. Now it’s up to Germany coach Hansi Flick to find a spot for Muller as it is for Bayern manager Julian Nagelsmann. It might take a deep understanding of individual positions to get things into the right place. Muller seems aware of his situation and is paying respect to the upswing of his potential successors in Bayern’s midfield such as 19-year-old Jamal Musiala, or striker Eric Maxim Choupo-Moting. “It worked all right without me,” he said, adding he hopes it will be working as he is back for competition now. “You have to turn frustration and pain into positive energy,” he said. “My goal is to be on the pitch.” Private life might help to achieve a satisfying end in a job he loves. Part-time work has become familiar for Muller over the past years as he turned into a helping hand for his horse-breeding wife in the family stables. Taking part in the daily routines of his dressage-riding spouse now might support the attempt to find a smooth finish for his football career. “I know about hard work and endless efforts,” he said, seeming to simultaneously talk about football and horse breeding.