Simeon, it is almost two years since you left us to join your creator. The gap you left behind is irreplaceable and it is simply unbearable. However, considering that you are now at peace consoles us. I am grateful that it was such an honor to be your loving wife and father to our children. We miss you immensely, our hero. Sometimes, certain things are better explained than others but I want you to know that I will always love you together with your children and grandchildren. We thank God for the time we got to be with you. Simeon, you taught me many things but there are some that really charms me up. Remember at Mau Narok you showed me how to light that oven that was in the kitchen with firewood. You made a delicious breakfast for me. Sometimes when children ask me what is the most romantic thing Dad did for you? I share the oven and breakfast story. I brag how romantic you were. Now the story is well known to their friends and the name for that story "A romantic bed and breakfast from Dad to Mom". G!!! I miss you Simeon. My dear, you were the most loving, compassionate and generous man that ever lived. You truly had no hesitance in demonstrating that biggest kind heart to me and everyone. You gave me love and taught me how to best love those you care about. By example, you taught us that it didn't matter what part of the earth one came from nor class they belonged to in a morally oriented society. The poor, the rich for you they were all people you treated with love and dignity. Your goodness lives in me, your wives, children, your grand children, all those that you helped, and even those who looked up to you as their role model. You were a pillar to our Kisii Community where you were born and raised, including everywhere you stepped, trailed both locally and internationally. The nation you served diligently, the literature you created, every warm embraces you gave, every piece of advice to those you mentored is your goodness. It is your goodness that changed the world and it will live on forever. Babe you planted good seeds. I miss you more than words can express my Dear Simeon. I hope I continue seeing you in my dreams. I will always love you no matter what. Lots of Love from your children and wife Margaret Chweya Nyachae.  REST IN PEACE UNTIL WE MEET AGAIN.