President William Ruto and his deputy Rigathi Gachagua are on Sunday expected to grace the interdenominational prayers in Nanyuki town,  Laikipia county. The announcement was made by Laikipia Governor Joshua Irungu last week after he met with religious leaders of different faiths to plan for the event. “President William Ruto will grace the interdenominational prayers for Laikipia county scheduled for January 8 in Nanyuki,” the governor said through a Facebook post. Speaking to Star, Defence Principal secretary Patrick Mariru also confirmed Ruto's visit. “Yes, Ruto will indeed attend an interdenominational service in Laikipia," Mariru said. Gatanga MP and UDA legal secretary general Edward Muriu also told the Star that Ruto will traverse the whole country for prayers and to preach unity. He said Ruto has already confirmed the visit and he will use the opportunity to explain the government agenda for the people of Laikipia. Muriu further said Ruto will head to Laikipia after winding his Cabinet retreat in Nyeri county. “President Ruto on Sunday will hold an interdenominational service in Laikipia county and he will be hosted by Laikipia governor Joshua Irungu among other UDA leadership in the region," Muriu said. Ruto recently appointed former Laikipia West MP Patrick Mariru as Principal secretary for Defence. The prayer service will double as a thanksgiving ceremony. Political analyst Albert Kasembeli told the Star that Ruto's continuous prayer meetings across the country are aimed at meeting the people and setting the pace for the 2027 general election. He said the thanksgiving meetings are mostly dominated by campaign promises and strategic positioning. “President Ruto’s interdenominational prayer meetings are aimed at bringing his supporters together and there is nothing wrong with that," Kasembeli said. Ruto on December 11, last year held a similar event in Nyandarua county, Kipipiri constituency. He promised an economic revolution in Nyandarua following a meeting with leaders during an interdenominational church service in Kipipiri. Ruto also held a prayer service in Murang’a county hosted by Governor Irungu Kang’ata. Among those expected to attend the Laikipia prayer service include Cate Waruguru (former women rep), Ndindi Nyoro (MP Kiharu), Kimani Ichungwa (MP Kikuyu), senators John Kinyua (Laikipia) John Methu (Nyandarua ) and Kiambu senate UDA candidate Karungo Thangw’a.