Human rights activists in Kisumu have called on Interior PS Raymond Omollo to deal firmly with the increased insecurity in the county. They regretted that there have been escalating attacks, mugging, robberies and killings committed by criminals in Kisumu. Led by Kisumu City Residents Voice Association chairman Audi Ogada, they said several people have been attacked with some killed and bodies dumped in various areas. “Some victims are nursing serious deep cut wounds while others have been paralysed,” he said. Ogada said it is unfortunate that residents are being terrorised, killed and maimed by criminals with little effort taken by the security agency. “For how long shall we continue to lose our people in the hands of these dreaded criminals? Where is the government mandated to protect and safeguard the citizens?” he asked. He asked PS to overhaul security heads and police officers in the county, especially those who overstayed in Kisumu. The spate of insecurity, he said, has affected business activities in Kisumu with traders living in fear. “We have cases where business people, teachers and those from work have been killed. Survivors are still in hospitals with huge bills,” Ogada said. He questioned the whereabouts of Governor Anyang Nyong’o and county commissioner Josephine Ouko when people were attacked and killed. “Our leaders are nowhere to be seen yet the criminals have taken control and terrorised residents,” Ogada said. In the past 10 days, he said there are people admitted to hospitals with severe injuries while some are in various mortuaries after being hacked to death. “We have this evidence in the form of pictures. People are really suffering,” Ogada said. He asked Ouko who chairs the county security team to take swift action now that the county was faced with increased crime rates, ranging from the robbery with violence, thuggery and murders. Ogada also called on Interior CS Kithure Kindiki to ensure residents are protected from frequent attacks and murders. “Our people are worried and concerned over the high crime rates in the county. It is too much and unacceptable when residents are being attacked and killed,” he said. Ogada told Kindiki to act on the security request made by Kisumu Senator Tom Ojienda and Kisumu Central MP Joshua Oron to curb insecurity. “We cannot sit back when our people are being maimed, butchered and robbed yet we have a government in place that should protect them,” he added.