Nairobi Governor Johnson Sakaja has gazetted a 14-member committee to review the county’s ballooning pending bills which stand at Sh100.2 billion. Through a gazette notice dated January 16, 2023, Sakaja said that the purpose of the Committee is to address the matter of pending legal bills claimed against the County Government. “Pursuant to the provisions of the Constitution of Kenya, the County Governments Act, 2012 and the Public Finance Management Act, 2012, I, the Governor of Nairobi City County, establish a committee to be known as the Committee on the Review, Scrutiny and Verification of Pending Legal Bills,” reads the notice. The Committee shall be chaired by Kamotho Waiganjo while  Sylvia Mueni Kassanga will be its Vice-chairperson. Waiganjo is the husband of Kirinyaga Governor Ann Waiguru while Mueni was a former nominated Senator. Other members include Law Society of Kenya Eric Theuri, Aldrin Ojiambo, Dulma Farah Mohamed, David Kabeberi, Dickson Mwenze, Elias Mutuma, Jackson Onyango, Emily Chelule, Victor Swanya and Wangechi Wahome Ng’ayu. The committee will also have a joint Secretariat to the committee whose members are  Beatrice Auma Otieno and  Francis Njoroge. In the performance of its functions, the committee will be expected to have access to reports of any previous investigations relevant to its mandate and submit monthly progress reports, and a final report to Governor Sakaja. The committee will also consider appropriate, carry out or cause to be carried out such studies or research as may inform the committee of its mandate and have all the independence necessary for carrying out its function for the proper execution of its mandate, including the power to regulate its own procedure without being the subject of control by any other. Within three months, after scrutiny and analysis of the County Government’s stock of legal pending bills (or such longer period that the Governor may authorize), the committee will submit to Sakaja a report with recommendations for a settlement of the said pending bills. The Waiganjo-led committee within four months will also submit to the Governor a final report detailing recommendations towards the streamlining of the procurement of legal services within the County Government and ensuring that future escalation of pending legal bills is avoided. Also, in consultation with the Governor,  the committee will have the power to co-opt any person or to appoint sub-committees as it deems fit only for specialized aspects of its terms of reference. According to the notice, the Secretariat of the Committee will be based at the City Hall and shall be responsible to the committee for providing appropriate background briefing and preparing the Committee’s reports and disseminating any information deemed relevant to the Committee. “The Secretariat of the Committee will also undertake research and liaising with the relevant National and Nairobi City County Government Departments and any other institution in order to gather relevant information necessary for the Committee,” reads the notice further. To reach the Sh100.2 billion mark, City Hall's debt has grown by more than Sh20 billion, having stood at Sh78.1 billion on June 30, 2021. Law firms are owed Sh21.2 billion, government-guaranteed loans stand at Sh15.3 billion while water and foreign loans account for Sh3.8 billion. The county government also owes the Local Authorities Pension Fund Sh24.9 billion in unremitted contributions. It owes Kenya Revenue Authority Sh932 million in unremitted pay-as-you-earn of Sh707.9 million, with penalties and interests accruing from the same amounting to Sh105.7 million. The devolved government owes KRA another Sh118.5 million in VAT. City Hall also owes KCB Bank Sh4.5 billion in long-term loans. The same amount is owed to suppliers and contractors.