At least 10 local startups addressing food losses and by-products will access funding of up to €50,000 (Sh6.5 million) each in the second leg of the accelerator programme by O-Farms. In a statement, the African programme launched in 2021 will see selected startups benefit from a tailored circularity curriculum, which will help them define their circular solutions, and strengthen their business models. The initiative focuses on agri-circularity with the goal of making circularity a mainstream approach for improved rural livelihoods and sustainability. In Kenya, the programme is implemented by E4Impact Accelerator. According to E4Impact Entrepreneurship Centers director, David Cheboryot, their aim is to support SMEs to refine their innovations, strengthen their business models, access financing opportunities and create a founding community advocating for better adoption of a circular economy. ''We are looking forward to receiving the second cohort of agri-circularity SMEs as we strive towards cementing Kenya as an agricultural hub in Africa,” said David Cheboryot, director of the E4Impact Entrepreneurship Centers. He said that Kenya is able to sustainably feed its growing population, without depleting its natural resources, adding that O-Farms will build innovation support infrastructure that enables circular agribusiness to grow and develop. Some of the startups selected for the programme include Yummy Pot Limited which sells instant mashed potato flour and raw potato flour to households and businesses. Janabichi Agri Solutions, a firm that converts rejected tomatoes and capsicum to various sauces and Sbike Limited which uses sugar production processes, such as pulp and molasses to produce ethanol have also been selected. Other firms include Agribusiness Solutions which processes avocado oil using a zero-waste circular and Soil Doctors which makes low-cost, biodegradable carbon-sink bag sheaths to cover trees and enable their independent growth without irrigation. Stawi Seeds, Korogocho Market Traders Association (KMTA) and Vermitech Consultants have also qualified for the programme.