Thousands of residents of Malindi turned up at the Buntuani waterfront park to usher in the New Year in celebrations that saw the grand return of fireworks. The fireworks were banned in Malindi for years following security threats, but for the first time in a long while residents had the opportunity to enjoy the start of 2023 with massive explosions that excited them. Malindi Member of Parliament Amina Mnyazi together with a host of MCAs led by Shella ward rep Twahir Abdulkarim led the thousands of residents in ushering in the New Year, described 2023 as a year of hope and prosperity. Residents both young and old, local and foreigners, could not hide their joy upon crossing over the New Year in style, saying witnessing the fireworks was a clear signal that the tourist resort town was safe and more tourists should come for holidays. In an interview, Mnyazi thanked all the tourists who turned up in Malindi town to usher in the New Year. “As you know Malindi is a tourist destination even though many people think Coast is Mombasa alone. We want to let the entire country and the world at large know that Malindi is the place to be,” she said. She said Malindi was full of hospitality with beautiful people, nice foods and many historical places to visit. The legislator said she is working with MCAs to ensure that tourism is revamped fully in Malindi so as to bring back the lost glory. “As of now security is perfect in Malindi, so we expect in future there will be changes even in terms of the visitors that we are going to host. We are targeting international visitors and the majority of the local tourists who are here in our country,” she said. The MP urged investors to come to Malindi and help to revamp the tourism sector as the town is safe. Mnyazi said they partnered with the management of Buntuani water front and MCAs to make the celebrations a success. The Shella MCA said they were happy to have fireworks for the first time in Malindi during the new year celebrations. “People have brought local foods, showcased their culture and youth showed their talents. This is amazing! We intend to do it more often, everyone is welcome under the leadership of the MP and I we are going to deliver in Malindi,” Abdulkarim said. Among those present at the Buntuani waterfront to usher in New Year was renowned Coast actress Neema Sulubu who was very excited to be part of the thousands of residents celebrating. She said there were many people who wished to see the New Year but could not make it and thanked God for making it possible. “For the first time I have celebrated the New Year at Buntuani waterfront park, it was amazing. What made it better is that after three years of Covid -19 pandemic we have not been celebrating this way. The last time we celebrated like this was in 2018, when we saw fireworks,” she said. Sulubu said her wish is to see 2023 become a year of success for all. Abdulrahim Salim, a resident, said he was happy to celebrate the New Year at the waterfront park and urged the President to support youths so as to have more opportunities to transform their lives. Tina Tatu, a resident of Malindi, said they were happy to celebrate the New Year with their MP and see fireworks, something that has not happened for years. “Malindi is safe , security is fine. That’s why we have been allowed to set fireworks. We urge people to come to Malindi because it’s safe,” she said.