Migori county government has set out plans to enrol 174,000 farmers for subsidized fertilisers from the national government ahead of the next planting season. Already officers from the county agriculture department and chiefs and their assistants have been registering farmers and are now mapping out agro-vets and outlets to help in subsidized fertilizer distribution. “We have extended registration to catch more farmers and also plan to end cartels buying the fertilizers and selling at higher prices,” Chief Officer for Agriculture and Cooperative Development Michael Midwa said. So far, 93, 000 farmers have taken a step to register themselves for subsidized fertilizers as they target 174, 000 farmers. Migori is part of 12 counties that have been selected to participate in the National fertilizer subsidy programme (FSP), where both national and county governments seek to enhance food production and security whose first phase focuses on the maize value chain. The implementation of this programme will be done in two phases. Midwa said farmers will receive an allocation of the acreage they have registered. The fertilizers will be issued at Sh3,000 per 50kg bag, compared to the current market price which costs between Sh6,000 to Sh7,000. “We will identify reputable agro vets so as the farmers can easily access the fertilizers and the county is going to identify collection centres which are close to where farmers are located,” he said. Additionally, Midwa said the fertilizers will be issued at a location or sub-location level. Migori Director Crop James Masisa said they have placed strategies to ensure we have enough food, as they have advised farmers to ensure they prepare land early so as to get a bumper harvest. The county plans to have more extension officers who will help farmers in ensuring that the fertilizers they will get match the type of soil in their farms. He noted that they are now targeting to have targeting 70, 00 Ha of land placed under maize, as last season, only 49, 900 Ha was used. Farmers who have registered will receive the allocation of subsidized fertilizer which will be paid for using an e-Voucher for the entire acreage registered.