President William Ruto on Thursday afternoon presided over the groundbreaking ceremony of the Ruiru Affordable Housing Project in Kiambu. The project is set to deliver 1,050 housing units. The Ruiru project is expected to alleviate the housing deficit and boost the local economy. Speaking during the launch Ruto said that his government was on course in delivering the project. “My Government's commitment to delivering decent and affordable housing units for the majority of Kenyans for whom their own roof over their heads has previously been a dream cannot be gained,” he said. The Ruiru Affordable Housing Project is located near Kenya Prisons Staff Training Collage, Ruiru along the Ruiru - Kiambu road. The land measures approximately 2.47 Ha (~6,10 acres). The site previously had government pool houses with 37 households who were relocated to pave way for the redevelopment. However, the government will reserve 10 per cent of one block of houses for rental purposes and to re-stock government estates assets in lieu. Cabinet Secretary for Lands Zakariah Njeru Pledged that his ministry will endeavour to deliver sufficient land for the affordable housing programme countrywide. “Together with the officers in the three state departments, we will create a one-stop shop for fast-tracking all the necessary approvals to ensure expeditious programme implementation,” Njeru said. The affordable housing project is a key plan of the government's agenda in the Kenya Kwanza manifesto. President William Ruto in October 2022 highlighted that the housing project is not only about low cost and decent housing needs but also meant to create jobs for thousands of youth and stimulate the economy. Calling on investors, he emphasized that affordable housing cannot be achieved by the government alone, noting that his administration will ensure private developers get a market for the constructed units when they partner with the State. The government targets to build 200,000 housing units every year to bridge the housing deficit. Last week, State House spokesperson Hussein Mohamed said that 39 counties have identified land in which affordable houses will be constructed. "All this is in line with the president's commitment to bridging the housing deficit which stands at two million units. The target is to do 200,000 units each year," he said.