President William Ruto says the affordable housing project he launched on Friday in Shauri Moyo will consist of 25-storey apartments to accommodate more Nairobians. He said the initial plan was to have 16-story apartments for the Sh10 billion project but due to land scarcity, there's a need to have more floors. "My people in the ministry had planned to construct 16-storey apartments but I have told them the land is scarce in Nairobi," Ruto said. The President spoke during the groundbreaking for the Shauri Moyo Affordable Housing Project, in Nairobi. He directed Housing and Planning PS Charles Hinga to change the design of the apartments to match the new plan. "The governor of Nairobi Mr Sakaja will approve it so that city residents can have homes," he said. The president directed that on completion of the houses, tenants should be allowed a rent-to-own payment plan for 50 per cent of the houses where they should pay no more than Sh7,000 per month to enable them fully own the houses after ten or 15 years. "The cheapest should be Sh5,000 per month," Ruto said. He said a similar affordable housing plan will be launched at the Kiambiu slums where tenants will be allowed to pay as little as Sh4,000 to own the houses after 15-20 years. "I'm told 30,000 people live in Kiambiu where there is no planning, there are no roads and there is no school. We are going to rectify it, that is the nation we are going to build," Ruto said. He directed that eight new classrooms be built at the Heshima Primary School by the contractor to accommodate children of the families that will occupy the houses. "We have also agreed that he will construct a dormitory and four new classrooms at Our Lady of Mercy Secondary. Here at the housing site, we will also have four three-storey markets so that mama mbogas have a place to do their businesses," Ruto said. The head of state said the plan is to change the face of the city by having modern facilities and an organised city. "Hii city haiwezi kuwa capital city kama tumekaa tu kienyeji namna hii," he said.