Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa has compared the progress made by former President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga as African Union envoys. Barasa on Sunday acknowledged that in the four months Uhuru has been the regional peace facilitator, progress has been witnessed. "Four months after Uhuru’s appointment as Peace Envoy by President Ruto, there are tangible results towards resolving the conflicts in DRC and Ethiopia," he said. The retired President was appointed shortly after the new administration took the oath of office. “I have committed that the government will support those initiatives that will be chaired by President Kenyatta and I want to thank you Excellency for graciously agreeing to support us and help me in those interventions,” Ruto said then. The Ethiopian Federal government and the Tigray People's Liberation Front (TPLF) signed the Permanent Cessation of Hostilities Agreement, following talks with the AU Commission High-Level Panel Members. The first meeting on the same was held on October 27, 2022, in South Africa, with the most recent on Thursday, December 29, 2022, in Mekelle, Tigray. It was on the evaluation of the peace deal made. Regarding the DRC conflict, Uhuru said they had made progress, even closing meetings in the East African region. He said the next meetings will be held "far from home" as progress had been made. "Because we believe we shall have progressed we are going to have two meetings in Goma and Bunia," he said on December 6. MP Barasa wondered what results were seen in the time Raila has been African Union's High Representative for Infrastructure Development. "Five years after Raila Odinga was appointed AU Envoy for Infrastructure and Development, are there any tangible results in that regard?" he asked. In 2019, Raila urged on development of the Lamu Port-South Sudan-Ethiopia-Transport Corridor in AU. "A strong case has been made to the AU on the LAPSSET Corridor Project's strategic position to connect not only Ethiopia and South Sudan, but also connecting to Central African Republic (Bangui) and Cameroon, terminating at Port Douala," LAPSSET Development Authority. The report came after holding a meeting with Raila.