The ODM party boss Raila Odinga has announced plans to revamp the party head of the 2027 general elections. Odinga refuted claims that ODM was weakening and that the Azimio la Umoja coalition was crumbling after losing the August 2022 general elections to President William Ruto of the Kenya Kwanza Coalition. The ODM leader was speaking in Mombasa after holding his first political meeting this year when he met Mombasa ODM elected leaders and a section of party delegates. He said that he was going nowhere hinting that he will vie for the country’s top seat for the sixth time in 2027. “I hear people saying that Raila should go to Bondo, Raila is still strong. I am going nowhere.” "Some are saying that ODM is dying and our enemy is making inroads in our strongholds, but I am telling them ODM is still strong. In fact, beginning this year we shall embark on a mission to revamp the party from the grassroots level up to the national level,” said Odinga. The Azimio boss said that the coalition was also still intact dismissing claims that there was disintegration within the coalition. “The coalition is very much intact, no one is leaving. As ODM embarks on its revamping, I also call on all our other coalition partners to do the same. For the coalition to remain strong, all the parties must remain strong,” Odinga said. Odinga rebuked IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati alleging that he bungled last year’s general election that saw his victory stolen. He said that Chebukati committed crimes against humanity and should be taken to the international criminal court located in Hague, Netherlands. “You all saw what happened in Bomas last year, Chebukati is behind the rot in the two previous general elections in the country. For us to have credible elections, then he must be charged for the atrocities he committed against Kenyans,” he said. Odinga also refuted claims that some ODM and Azimio coalition governors and MPs had decamped to Kenya Kwanza. He said that the governors working with Ruto had the blessings of the party adding that the constitution was very clear that the two levels of government which are the national government and 47 county governments were distinct but collaborated to serve the people. “The relationship between the national government and the county governments is well enshrined in the constitution. When you see an ODM governor going to the statehouse it doesn’t mean that they have decamped” he said. Odinga further accused Ruto of delaying disbursing monies to counties saying that this was delaying service delivery at the counties. “The constitution is very clear on how revenues should be shared to counties, he is not doing you a favour so don’t bootlick him to get your share of the revenues,’ he said. Odinga also asked the president to respect churches and mosques and desist from using the pulpit for politics. He alleged that the government was taking advantage of their weekly church services to sell government propaganda to the people. “I am asking Ruto to respect our churches and mosques and stop using the pulpit for your politics. If you are going to church to pray, do so and leave, politics should be out of the church,” Odinga said. Mombasa governor Abdulswamad Nassir called for leaders’ unity calling on all ODM elected leaders to deliver on their mandate. Nassir said that leaders have the responsibility to serve all Kenyans equally whether they voted for the or not. Members of parliament from the county led by Jomvu MP Badi Twalib reiterated their commitment to ODM saying that they were unbowed and unshaken. Twalib said that Odinga was very much strong for 2027 saying that it was too early to write him off. “Raila is still very strong to vie for the presidency, he is our political Messi and we believe he still can score the winning goal,” said Twalib. Twalib said that the Mombasa governor’s office is a public office where everyone is free to come, therefore the fact that Nassir was there to welcome the president does not mean anything. “Getting development from the national government is our right, it is not a favour that someone is doing to us,” he said. He also took a swipe at deputy president Rigathi Gachagua warning him to desist from attempting to gag them from speaking against the government. Other leaders present during the meeting included Mvita MP Mohamed Machele, Rashid Bedzimba (Kisauni), Omar Mwinyi (Changamwe), senator Mohammed Faki, Mombasa county Assembly speaker Aharub Khatri together with a host of elected and nominated MCAs.