Reigning Kenyan Premier League champions Tusker, have named Eric Ngava, player of the month for January. The offensive midfielder, a graduate of the academy,  received an impressive 72 percent of the total votes from the technical bench, teammates, and fans. Bringing the development to light at an event held at Utalii Hotel on Friday, the club's acting chief executive officer, Sam Nzau, congratulated Ngava for his feat, saying he had won the accolade on merit. “Since joining the senior squad in 2019, Eric has been impressive with his exceptional skills as a creative and speedy winger, selfless attitude, and ability to change the game,” Nzau said. The mercurial youngster has featured in 8 matches thus far, translating into a total of 517 minutes, and has also provided two assists. “His performances have been outstanding, and it's no surprise that he has been recognised for his efforts,” Nzau said. "We are proud of Eric's achievements and we wish him and the team continued success for the rest of the season." Nzau said they would continue pumping resources to boost the chances of the team's charge for a second consecutive title. “Our commitment to the team doesn't stop here. We will continue to support the team and invest in its development to ensure we maintain our position as one of the top teams in the league." While celebrating his achievement, Ngava expressed delight, saying he felt humbled and privileged to have been honoured amidst the tough competition from teammates. "I am honoured to have been named the player of the month. I am committed to continuing performing well for the team and hope for a successful season," Ngava said. “I would like to thank my teammates, the technical bench, and the fans for their support. The team's performance has been outstanding, and we believe that with the support of our fans, we will continue to achieve more success in the coming months." Tusker currently places at the summit of the table with 24 points after 11 matches, edging Nzoia Sugar on goal difference who have played one more match. The Ruaraka-based brewers return to action this weekend with a crunch tie against a revamped Kenya Police side.