The strong winds blowing across Lake Naivasha are a major threat to fishing and tourism. The winds have been attributed to the degradation of the littoral land where acacia trees and papyrus plants have illegally been cut down by loggers and charcoal burners. In the last two weeks, the lake has recorded strong winds every afternoon, adversely affecting fishing and eco-tourism activities. No wind-related accident has been recorded. Chairman of the Lake Naivasha Boat Owners Association David Kilo, the winds were getting stronger and more dangerous by the day. He said this was the first time in years that the lake had recorded such a rare phenomenon, saying in the past the winds were not so strong. Kilo called on boat operators to make sure that their vessels and safety jackets were in good condition. “We are calling on fishermen and eco-tourism operators to be wary of the strong winds mainly in the afternoon which are making it near impossible to conduct any activity in the lake,” he said. Kilo was however quick to note that the winds had turned out to be a blessing with the infamous water hyacinth weed swept from the lake. “For years all the landing beaches have suffered from the invasive plant but the winds have turned out to be a blessing sweeping them away from the open lake,” he said. On his part, Francis Muthui, the chairman of Friends of Lake Naivasha attributed the strong winds to the destruction of the acacia cover around the lake. He noted that the trees had played a critical role in protecting the lake from the strong winds and the flow of any effluent from the neighboring estates. “The problem of the strong winds started when the acacia trees were brought down en masse and things could get worse if the situation is not addressed,” he said. Earlier, the county government and stakeholders had announced plans to rehabilitate the riparian land by planting the yellow acacia and the papyrus plants. According to the CEC for Lands in Nakuru John Kihagi, the county was concerned by the wanton destruction of the riparian land by individuals and companies. “We have embarked on the process of rehabilitating the riparian land around the lake and the process will include planting acacia trees and papyrus,” he said. (Edited by V. Graham)