Former Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu has praised President William Ruto for organising the Nanyuki retreat for his Cabinet. Wambugu said the retreat could be a way for the President to ensure that everybody in his government knows his plans. This, he said, is what was lacking in the Jubilee regime where he said there was a disconnect between the county government, parliament and the executive. “It’s the first week of the year and it looks like we’re on top form. One of the things the President is doing is setting an agenda and ensuring everyone knows his plan. That was one of the dysfunctions in the previous government,” he said. The retreat, however, may trigger a debate on whether the President is trying to control other arms of the government, Ngunjuiri noted. “The challenge with that is there are some people just sitting somewhere waiting for him to do that so they can start poking holes in his plan… You can be sure in the next few days, we will be listening to the opposition saying why he’s not observing the independence of the institutions," he said. But with such retreats, the MP said there will be no excuse by any member of the government for their awareness of Ruto's plan. “He actually has a plan. He kept saying during campaigns that he had a plan, some of us didn’t believe him but you can see he’s implementing something that he has had in his mind. This is a good thing, this is one of the things that was lacking in the past," he said. Ngunjiri who was a staunch supporter of the Jubilee government noted that the President and his party have invested heavily in ensuring people are up to date with what is happening. He, however, expressed concerns that he may have a challenge striking a balance between politics and policies. “Policy making requires you to be non-emotional, to think with your mind its not like politics. When you try to do both at the same time, you struggle.  He’s doing both, his political game is in good form,” he said. With his 100 days after taking office done, Ngunjiri said Kenyans are welcome to start critiquing his policies and whether his government will implement its plans. He said some of the proposals made in the retreat such as running a paperless Cabinet are interesting considering many government officials like working with physical documents in case things go wrong. “Kudos for starting the year right, getting everybody on the same page and having the whole government thinking in one line and listening,” the former MP said.