Keroche heiress  Anerlisa Muigai has broken her silence after ex-husband Ben Pol claimed that he was not happy with their marriage. Ben, in an interview with Tanzanian blogger Millard Ayo, said their marriage was more about showing off on social media than enjoying the real benefits of the union. "To be honest, I shouldn't be a liar, I didn't really enjoy the marriage. The marriage plans to have children were not there. I didn't see marriage as I do with other people," he said. In a rejoinder, Anerlisa fired back daring the singer to reveal details of their private conversations towards the end of 2022 and the beginning of 2023. "Ben naona umenizoea, and you've taken my silence for weakness... You've always had the right to tell the interviewer not to ask about me... Why are you always making me look bad, yet undercover, you send me messages different from what you talk??" She went on: "Kama Kweli Wewe Ni Mwanaume, I dare you to screenshot what you have been sending me since 25th December to 4th January 2023 !!! I have a lot to say about/show you, but I choose to be a lady. It's simple, stop talking about me," she wrote on her Instagram. Shen asked the Bongo singer to completely stop talking about her on any platform. During the interview, Ben hinted that he feels he may have been used by his ex-wife to achieve her goals in life. "I feel like I entered the picture to bring that perfection!" he said. The singer noted that his relationship with Anerlisa was the first he was so committed and thus he had high hopes for a good marriage with him. He admitted that he had invested all his feelings and love in her before things went wrong. "The level of love, the level of commitment and the level of dedication that I had given to him had never happened before. I have never loved another person before. It was the first relationship that really sunk in and I was fine," he said. Ben made it clear that their marriage did not end because of infidelity issues. Despite their almost two-year separation and everything that happened between them, he said he holds no grudge against her. He also hinted that he still has feelings of love for Anerlisa in his heart.