AFC Leopards assistant coach Tom Juma has called for patience following a losing streak that has put the club in danger of being demoted. The disastrous run includes a humiliating 4-1 defeat to Bidco United at Nyayo Stadium a fortnight ago, which prompted enraged fans to put more pressure on the club's management to oust the technical bench. After Bidco's third goal, fans became impatient, and anti-riot police who had been deployed during the game were needed to disperse a raucous mob that was threatening to storm the pitch. Leopards' 2-1 loss to Wazito at Muhoroni Stadium over the weekend merely served to add salt to the wound and fanned the flames of an already raging fire. The result added to the sorrow for head coach Patrick Aussems, a Belgian who is already under pressure to quit Kenya's oldest club. However, Juma has prevailed upon their loyal fan base to exercise patience as they frantically strive to put their act together. “It happens in football. It is true that we are underwhelming and that the club is going through a trying time. We are requesting for patience from our fans despite this,” Juma said. The seasoned gaffer has attributed their string of losses to inexperience given the club cannot plunge resources into the transfer market to sign quality players at the moment due to an existing Fifa ban imposed in February last year. The club suffered the wrath of the world football governing body after failing to fulfill their obligation to ex-player Soter Kayumba. The Rwandan defender filed a complaint with Fifa, requesting full payment of the Sh1.8 million prize that was given out in 2021. “Due to the Fifa suspension, the team is currently unable to spend heavily on the transfer market to acquire quality players. "For the last two seasons, we have been relying heavily on players promoted from the youth team. "It will take the young players some time to adjust and become accustomed to the demands of playing in the top division of football, but I believe we will get through the challenging phase." In response to the rising criticism, Juma has exonerated the technical bench, claiming that the supporters are focusing their ire on the wrong individuals. Leopards have only won one game out of the seven matches they have played thus far, losing three and drawing two. Juma, though, believes that if they keep their sights on the end goal, this is just a temporary period that will soon be behind them. “Remember, we were in a similar position early on in the previous season, but we still managed to place in the top 10,” Juma said.