A total of 1,500 books have been donated to children in Korogocho in a move aimed at promoting the reading culture and enhancing literacy levels. The books were donated by Big Bad Wolf Sharjah to students at New Light Academy. According to Big Bad Wolf founder Andrew Yap, the culture of reading in Kenya is a bit low. “I hope the partnership we have will enable us to engage young learners to comprehend the culture of reading,” he said. He added that the culture of education is about passing knowledge as well as exams. “Learners should comprehend so that when they come out, they are thinkers beyond the classroom and we can do more things.” Part of the organization’s initiative to give back to the community was to support Miss Koch Kenya’s Education programme that ensures children in Korogocho have access to education. More than 1,500 books were collectively donated by the public and Big Bad Wolf for the learners in Korogocho. Andrew Yap’s love and enthusiasm for books transcend through his company and this initiative was nothing less than a blessing to kids who enjoyed unwrapping and reading the materials brought to them. In December last year, Big Bad Wolf Sharjah held a Christmas book sale expo at Sarit Centre, Westlands. The expo ran from December 4-January 2, 2023, where customers got to sample more than 500,000 books and 15,000 titles at discounts of up to 95 per cent on all books that were on offer. The event had also been launched in Tanzania and Malaysia before concluding in Kenya. Some of the books that were on offer were children's books including board games, sound books, story books and picture and colour books. Fiction and non-fiction, thriller, sci-fi, coffee table books and cookbooks among others for adults. During the fair, Big Bad Wolf Sharjah partnered with Miss Koch Kenya (MKK) a non-government organisation in Korogocho which offers education, mentorship and empowerment to vulnerable girls and women in the slums. Big Bad Wolf had pledged 500 books for the Miss Koch initiative.