Vihiga Senator Godfrey Osotsi and Luanda MP Dick Maungu want Interior CS Kithiki Kindure to shuffle security officers within Vihiga county, saying they have failed. The two were speaking at Epang’a Primary school during the funeral of George Sichenga. The two deplored lack of security within Vihiga county where murders are increasing However area leaders said the CS must transfert all Luanda police station officers. They said said the officers are the source of the problem within Luanda town. Senator Osotsi said the CS for internal security will be forced to shuffle all officers in the county who have served for more than eight years in Vihiga. Osotsi’s sentiments follow by a few months when people were fatally shot in Hamisi sub county by people. In Emuhaya a man was murdered in cold blood and his head disappeared for 11 days. Last week a woman was murdered in Mbale. “We have experienced insecurity problems in this county from here in Luanda, to Emuhaya, Vihiga, Sabatia and Hamisi as well,” Osotsi said. “We, as county leaders led by Governor Wilber Ottichilo  met the CS for Interior. We said that all security officers who have served here for eight years should be removed, Osotsi said. MP Maungu said it's necessary to work on security within Vihiga to ensure the residents are operating in a peaceful environment. The duo said security agents in Luanda have been at the front line in protecting illicit brewers within the town. Their sentiments were supported by the public, saying the police officers in Luanda are not on call but frustrate innocent people as they protect criminals in the town. Luanda OCPD David Ndirangu admitted to the problem of illicit brew in the town. “Yes, it's true that we are facing this problem of the illicit brew in this town, but most of it is imported from the Kakamega side, and on the border,” OCPD said. “Again those who are selling, whenever we arrest them, they have no money sobrew so it becomes a challenge to them to execute their work,” he added. They get bailed out and go back to work. (Edited by V.Graham)