Former President Uhuru Kenyatta's peace restoration efforts in eastern DRC have made considerable strides after M-23 rebels agreed to withdraw from the troubled region. This came to light on Thursday after Uhuru held a meeting with senior political and military leaders of the rebel group in Mombasa in his capacity as the Facilitator of the East African Peace Process in Eastern DRC. "In a demonstration of goodwill and the willingness to work towards the situation in the North Kivu, the leaders of the M-23 agreed to continue with the orderly withdrawal and to adhere to a strict cease-fire," a statement released after the meeting said. It said the rebel group also agreed to respect and cooperate with the East Africa Regional peacekeeping force as it takes up the areas vacated by M-23 fighters. Uhuru has so far facilitated three peace negotiation meetings in Nairobi between the rebels and the DRC government with the fourth consultation slated for mid-February. The M-23 expressed appreciation for Uhuru's continued commitment to seeking international assistance and cooperation aimed at restoring peace in eastern DRC and alleviating suffering for communities in the region. Representatives of the group called on Uhuru to assist in assuring that citizens' rights are respected and that all local and foreign armed groups fighting in North Kivu cease fighting or attacks on the M-23 as they leave the volatile region. "They took note and expressed gratitude that the Nairobi IV intra-Congolese consultation will be held in key towns of eastern DRC and thereby bring the Nairobi process closer to the various affected communities," the statement said. Meanwhile, Uhuru committed to getting personally involved, at the M-23's request, in curbing hate speech and the use of inflammatory language that could derail the peace process. The meeting noted that the volatile North Kivu region has experienced improved stability and security over the past four weeks where many people who had been displaced from their homes have started returning.