It has been a tough year for Grade 6 parents who have undergone radical changes and confusion. This has been attributed to the regime shift which has seen the application of new directives in the curriculum. Former President Uhuru Kenyatta had directed Grade 6 to be domiciled in secondary school, a move which was recently reversed by the new administration. President William Ruto appointed a 49-member task force to spearhead education reforms. After two months of public engagement, the team submitted a preliminary report guiding the Junior Secondary School transition. The report submitted to the President directed that junior secondary learners are domiciled in existing primary schools. The directive came after parents had already selected JSS schools, and held prayer day and even graduation for the learners. It further recommended that the ministry adds additional classrooms and a laboratory. "The construction of laboratories will be prioritised within the next year. MPs are asked to work towards providing support for the extra facilities," the report reads. The team led by chairman Raphael Munavu recommended that the summative assessment should not be used to place the learners in JSS. "Instead, it will be used as an assessment to monitor learning progress and provide feedback to education sector players on areas that require intervention," the report reads. Meanwhile, the team also recommended that primary schools neighbouring secondary schools share the laboratories and other facilities with junior secondary schools. Teachers Service Commission will now hire additional teachers to primary schools. The education review team directed the hiring of additional 30,000 teachers for the junior secondary category. This is because the learners will be domiciled in primary schools. "Ministry of Education, KICD and TSC will work on modalities of fast-tracking retooling teachers to ensure the country has sufficient numbers who are compliant with CBC," the report reads. Munavu said priority should be given to Grade 7 teachers during the hiring. "Government will recruit an additional 30,000 teachers by January 2023 to facilitate the transition and bridge the teacher shortage" the report reads. The directive sparked reactions from education stakeholders across the country. Kuppet said the education review team had returned to the former education system. The union secretary general Akello Misori said allowing primary schools to host junior secondary, is like taking the country back to the old curriculum. "The working party has reverted Kenya to the 8-4-4," Misori said. He said primary schools can't host junior secondary. "Eight years under the 8-4-4 system was already too long, but now the working party has added a new class to primary school," he said. The secretary general said the move will also prove costly to the government in terms of adding the extra facilities. Kenya National Union of Teachers now says the research which they presented to the task force formed the basis of the directive. Knut secretary general Collins Oyuu said the union made a satisfactory presentation to the review team. "Our research findings were based on teacher preparedness, summative evaluation and domiciling of JSS," Oyuu said in a statement. In its proposals, Knut made a strong case in favour of placing JSS in primary schools, saying secondary schools are congested and not ideal for younger learners.