Joseph Cheng'oli, a retired chief in Bungoma has dedicated his life towards helping street families. He provides them with food and takes those willing to learn  back to school. The retired chief said he is supporting 73 boys from the streets, to access education for free. Cheng’oli says many talents are dying in the streets of Bungoma and there is a need to support them to prosper. On Monday, the Star interviewed a former street boy Dickson Wandabwa, 16, who was rescued and taken back to school by the retired chief. He says if it were not for the retired chief, he could not be where he is today. Wandabwa who sat for his KCPE exam in 2022 at Free 2 Be Academy garnered 354 marks. He desires to join St Mary’s Kibabii Boys High School in Bungoma county. Wandabwa said he was forced to move from their home after his father died, yet his mother was insane. “After my father’s death my mother’s condition worsened. We could not relate well, we quarreled every time. I decided to move to the streets for my peace of mind," he said. Wandabwa however, said street life was not favourable to him as he was beaten by others. "I didn't even know where to start from," he said. Wandabwa hails from Ranje village, Kanduyi constituency, Bungoma South. He says he wants to be a surgeon once he completes his secondary education and scores an A. “With the life and persecutions I have gone through on the street I won’t joke with education. I want to break the record and rise from the street to become a surgeon in this country,” Wandabwa said. He urged those who are still on the street to accept education offers and go to class. Cheng’oli thanked Wandabwa for keeping the promise and posting stellar results in the KCPE exam. He also lauded the Bungoma town business community for the immense support in ensuring that street families are valued. Cheng’oli said he uses small amounts raised from his hotel business and the support from business class in Bungoma town to cater for the street families. He said he formed a group called Youth for Christ beyond Boundaries Mutual aid, mainly to support the less fortunate in the society. The retired chief said on January 10, there shall be a big meeting at the Bungoma airstrip, where all street families will be given foodstuffs and those willing to go back to school will be supported.