Singer Fena Gitu has addressed incessant rumors that she is dating Marini Natural CEO Michelle Ntallami. The two have been going viral for almost two weeks now, with many Kenyans alleging they are dating. Taking to her Instagram, Fena denied all suggestions that she is dating Michelle. "Usually I don't do this, but for people I care for, I will...After an honestly magical trip to Madagascar reconnecting with one beautiful @michelle.ntalami .... someone I share a deep and yes, complicated history with, the past week back in Nairobi has been one thing after another on the blogs. Can't even do post-holiday blues in peace. While I understand this life comes with the public scrutiny, there has to be limits to what and how "journalists" and journalists, report things." She added that she felt the need to clear up rumours circulating because rumors are just that...rumors~ "It's no secret that I hate the sometimes negative attention that goes with it. I like my shit private, and it will stay that way. But let me clarify this; Mich and I are, as she said in a recent interview, really good long-term friends. As it stands, we are not dating. She did not deny this. Neither did she deny me." The usually tight-lipped singer also hit out at people misunderstanding their opinion on dating "She has been truthful and vocal about her feelings on dating in Kanairo... and I feel the same! Twisting her words or cornering her for silly clickbait headlines or to push a narrative of denial is false. And honestly, an impediment to both of us and our progress. Or is it too complex a concept to understand?" Fena doesn’t talk much about her relationships, she did declare that a lot of the stuff we hear about her dating life isn’t necessarily true. "Let adults do adult things, and have fun in peace. Lima na upalilie kwako. I understand that the internet is a wild mix and you can't control perception unless you own your story. We will define things if / whenever we choose to. For now, we should all be focusing on 2023 being the year we shut shit down. And by God's Grace, we will. Kuspeculate mnaeza endelea kuspeculate, but if you see us wildin, whether with each other or anyone else, mind yo bidness."