Joel Chacha, General Manager and Chief Strategist at Tell-Em has been announced as a judge for the annual PRWeek Global Awards, the first from Kenya. The awards program, which honors the best in public relations, marketing, and communications, is among the most prestigious in the industry. As a judge, Joel will evaluate entries worldwide, providing insight into the most innovative and effective campaigns and strategies. He brings a wealth of experience in the field, having worked with some of the biggest brands, including Visa, Coca-Cola, Safaricom, Procter and Gamble,Xiaomi, Telkom, Green Revolution in Africa (AGRA), The International Finance Corporation (IFC), Qatar Airways, British Airways, and Kenya Airways to name a few. “I am honored to be part of the judging panel for the PRWeek GlobalAwards,” he said, “It is a great opportunity to serve as the first Kenyan judge and I look forward to learning from the best in the industry and recognising the amazing work that’s being done.” Chacha has strong brand leadership experience acquired over years as an integrated marketing and communications leader. Having tested his capacity to inspire and lead at the highest senior level of organisational leadership, shaping strategy, engaging senior government officials, inspiring large teams of employees and shareholders, and offering strategic counsel and support on media, reputation, and issues management, he serves on several boards. He is a member of the African Marketing Confederation (AMC), where he is tasked with exploring opportunities to advance the sector by leveraging on the opening up of the continent via the Africa Continental Free Trade. In addition, he has previously served as the chair of the Media Relations Expert Advisory Panel at the Public Relations Society of Kenya (PRSK). At the Marketing Society of Kenya (MSK), he is currently the Chairman of the Marketing and Gala Committee, where he steers portfolio clarity leading to the execution of award-winning campaigns. In 2019 and 2020, he sat on the jury of the MSK Awards, the most coveted marketing award in the region, before being elected as a corporate board member representative in 2021. The PRWeek Global Awards celebrates the best agencies, in-house teams, campaigns, and comms professionals worldwide. The shortlist of the entries will be announced in March. The PRWeek Global Awards ceremony will take place on May 9 at the London Marriott HotelGrosvenor Square.