Ulinzi Starlets coach Joseph Mwanza wants his charges to improve on their finishing after edging out Kisumu All Starlets 2-1 in a Women’s Premier League match at the Ulinzi Sports Complex on Sunday. Everline Juma gave the soldiers a fifth-minute lead. Mercy Airo doubled Ulinzi’s lead in the 77th minute rendering an 85th-minute freekick goal from Everline Adika a consolation. Mwanza is worried that profligacy is proving costly to the team after failing to make their dominance count. “We outclassed them (Kisumu) but we wasted many chances. Had we converted our chances, we would have killed the game by halftime,” Mwanza observed. “We showed grit to win but we are not at the level we want to be. Kisumu gave us a test that should serve as a wake up call if we endeavour to perform consistently.” His counterpart, Juma Said feels the festive break was to blame for their dismal show. Kisumu played on the back foot for much of the first half but a change of tact after the breather saw the team come to life in the second. “It wasn’t the best of starts from the team but the second half was better. We need to be defensively astute. Attackingwise, we have to be dangerous and fight for every ball. We started the season badly but the girls are picking up,” said Said. Ulinzi’s Juma capitalised on poor defending by Kisumu to slam home the opener, which left Kisumu goalkeeper Monica Tambo beaten. Kisumu’s Monica Etot tested Ulinzi shot-stopper Belinda Akinyi with a teasing 25-yard strike but her effort was tipped off the crossbar for a corner in the 20th minute as Kisumu pushed for an equaliser. Airo failed to double the lead from a sumptuous pass from Sheril Andiba as the Super Cup champions headed into the breather with 1-0 advantage. Ulinzi were still the better side in the second half despite their wastefulness in front of goal. Airo and Neddy Atieno failed to extend Ulinzi’s lead on the hour mark despite a clear chance. Kisumu had their moments in the game and we’re unlucky not to equalise as Etot’s tame shot hit the crossbar for a corner. Airo, however, made it 2-0 from close range in the 77th minute. Averlyne Adika halved the deficit for Kisumu with an 85th-minute free kick. The soldiers held their nerves to register maximum points. Ulinzi have a date with perennial rivals Thika Queens this weekend.