Kiambu super chiefs nabbed hundreds of litres of illicit brew during a Friday raid. More than 10 dens were raided and illegal brews confiscated alongside their sellers. More than 80 consumers also arrested. Senior principal chief George Kibugi said some people were selling illegal brew and drugs during the festive season. “Residents reported an increase in the sale of illegal brews and bhang in the villages and towns," he said. "We investigated and identified several dens, which we ambushed. We nabbed the illegal brew alongside the sellers and peddlers.” The chiefs dabbed super 10 raided an unlicensed bar in an abandoned building selling illegal brew called ‘miti ni dawa’ at the Indian Bazaar centre in Kiambu town. Kibugi said the brew was being sold to customers at intervals, to avoid raising suspicion. “The brews would be sold to customers in tranches and they leave. Idle sitting was not recommended," he said. "At the entrance of the building, there is construction material, to throw off authorities and dupe them of an ongoing construction.” The chief said they raided dens in Ndumberi, Kiambu town and Tinganga villages, where the raid will continue until the brews are gotten rid off. “During our raids we discovered that most second generation liquor have Kenya bureau of standards labels. We have collected evidence and the liquor will be tested at the government chemist. The Kebs labels will also be scrutinised,” he said. Kibugi said the brews have made young men and women look like zombies. He said during the raids they found others who were unable to walk and rushed them to hospital. The chief further warned those brewing the famous kikuyu traditional wine ‘Muratina’ for commercial purposes saying they will be arrested and arraigned. “We know during the holidays there was a lot of ‘Muratina’ being consumed. We have established that it is being brewed for commercial purposes. We have reports of the sellers and we are coming for them,” Kibugi said. A Keg beer seller who declined to be named said their sales have gone down since their customers prefer the cheap illegal brews. “The illegal brews are being packed in pressurised barrels like that of Keg and a cup is being sold for Sh30 or less. This has drawn our customers to the cheap brew dens,” she said. Dan Nyoroge a licensed bar owner said once the young men consume the cheap brew before they enter a bar, they black out, which is bad for business. “We have realised that the young men who consume illegal brews later come to our bars, buy only one beer and they black out. This worries us because if one blacks out, it is said that we are the ones who sold bad alcohol to them,” Njoroge said.