Junior secondary school learners have reported to their respective schools for the start of their junior secondary education. The start of their new academic journey came amid confusion in most of the public schools in the county as they lack teaching materials as well as trained teachers to teach junior learners. Most of the schools did not have learning equipment with the government still in the process of recruiting teachers. Some parents were however excited about the prospects of their children joining the junior secondary school and held a meeting with school heads to discuss the new school uniforms and other requirements. Little Angels School in Marsabit registered 50 learners on the first day. The school has three streams that can accommodate 90 students and can go beyond that number since the space is adequate. The school has already set up science, Home science and computer laboratories as per the directives of the ministry of education in line with the junior secondary school's requirements. Elijah Joseph, the school's headteacher said the school has a large number of students already reported. They are expecting more learners, especially from other schools that will not manage to comfort junior secondary school needs. "We are prepared to hold at least 90 students in our institution. We have well-trained teachers for junior school," said Elijah He said despite the high cost incurred in setting up structures, the institution was ready to have Grade seven learners. Speaking to the press, Elijah said they are leading in embracing the competency-based curriculum. The school manager Bokayo Wario assured parents and guardians that they have already purchased enough furniture, and learning materials to accommodate more learners. "We are ready to cater for current and future needs of junior secondary school learners," she said The school which is situated in the Jirime area, five kilometres from Marsabit town emerged as a giant school and has a voice in the academic curriculum and is the best private school in the county. "We are focusing on each learner's unique gifts and talents so that through education we can empower them to achieve the talents they have," said Bokayo "We prepare young learners for a life of leadership, accomplishment and common service," she added She said they have smaller class sizes that allow teachers to know each student to enhance their strengths, improve their weaknesses and meet their developmental, emotional and academic needs. The school administrator said besides basic learning materials and qualified teachers, they also promote critical thinking, decision making and problem-solving skills while promoting sports for the child's synchronization of the body. She said music lessons alleviate boredom, loneliness and anxiety by diverting children's focus away from their problems. She said the CBC plays an important role in the promotion of students' well-being and acquisition of skills adding that there are significant differences in the love for learning demonstrated by the competency Based Curriculum learner compared to the previous curriculum. "Learners are more disciplined owing to the curriculum's strong focus on values and they are digitally literate," she said Bokayo added that CBC is like a student-based system with more focus on the ability of the student to self-learn and develop relevant skills required for any engagement carried out. She said parents not only have a role of providing needed resources and material for learning but also had a vital role in ensuring that they follow up on the progress of their children's education by building on the abilities that the learners have. Abdub Nura, a teacher at Little Angels school, said they are inspiring, Innovative and they provide holistic education, covering a wide range of disciplines. " My child is enjoying this school and their teaching is a more important thing to me. The school does an excellent job of assisting student's education," he said Adan Woche, a parent at Little Angels in Marsabit said he enjoys CBC as he has time with his kids when doing their projects. He praised the new system of education, saying it had transformed the education system from exam-based to skills, competence and value-based. Grade 7 learner Hanaan Juma said the new system of education would engineer them to identify their strength and nurture their talents at an early stage. She hailed the competency-based curriculum initiatives saying it would go a long way in improving the education standards. " The new system signifies developing skills and knowledge and applying those competencies to a real-life situation," she said 13-year-old Grade 7 learners at Little Angels Isack Adan Isack said he is so excited to join junior secondary school. He praised the institution saying it is well equipped with learning materials and their teachers are more friendly.