Luxury tourism and travel around the world are likely to see considerable growth from 2023 onwards. This is both local but predominantly international travellers with a sense of adventure who look to explore new insights with the addition of added pampering, care, and all the finishings. This is according to Radisson Bu Mosi-Oa-Tunya, Livingstone Resort general manager, Shaun Wheeler. Globally, research shows that travellers are keen to spend more on trips than ever before due to a long period when travel was not possible. Interestingly, it’s not only high-class executives and the likes looking for luxury travel. Trends have indicated that middle-class travellers are increasingly spending more money on travel as they carve out itineraries that lean towards premium leisure. Wheeler said that there are, however, four reasons why this type of travel is back in demand. 1. Long, luxurious stays Wheeler said that entrepreneurs, executives, and leaders at the top of their industries are increasingly opting for longer self-care holidays. They not only include holistic attention to body, mind, and spirit but also experiences that allow guests to dive deeper into a destination. “Guests no longer want a quick in-and-out holiday,” Wheeler said. “They want to stay for longer so they can truly enjoy their downtime in a destination. And a hotel such as ours is perfectly positioned to meet such needs.” He added that the hotel is located close to some of the known attractions in Zambia such as Victoria Falls. 2. Complete disconnection Wheeler explained that away from a busy life, those opting for a luxury holiday want to feel as though they are away from the daily hustle and bustle. “Luxury holidays are increasingly popular. This type of break allows guests to disconnect from everyday life,” he said. He also said that in a luxury resort or hotel, guests are able to choose from a range of activities that will almost force them to disconnect from the daily pressures. 3. Five-star experiences away from the crowds “As a result of the pandemic, travellers are considering options they haven’t looked at before,” Wheeler said. He added that they tend towards remote destinations away from the madding crowds and destinations that they have all seen before. 4. It’s about doing something different In a world where everyone has places like London and New York on their must-see lists, there’s however something to be said for those who venture to uncommon destinations. “Luxury travellers know this. Being able to say that you’ve been to a top destination that is almost a best-kept secret makes travellers feel as though they are part of an exclusive club,” Wheeler said. He also said that while luxury is about enjoying the finer things in life, it is also great to be able to say that you have been somewhere that your family and friends have not been to.