  Tharaka Nithi Governor Muthomi Njuki has claimed that the Jubilee wing of the Azimio coalition is inciting Raila Odinga to protests. The governor, urged President William Ruto to be wary of the faction  which he said is quietly plotting and 'bankrolling' the planned protests. Njuki, who spoke during a church thanksgiving service in Kirinyaga on Sunday, said some Jubilee leaders are blowing hot and cold. "It is not possible that Azimio was made up of only one faction of the opposition, there is also another camp that is within us and we are not looking, we need to start looking at them," the governor said. "Don't look at Tinga alone, look at the others, they are the ones inciting him.... they are trying negotiate while they are advancing to war." He lauded Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua for making deliberate efforts to woo Jubilee leaders from Mt Kenya and who lost in the last polls. Without mentioning names, Njuki said the Azimio wing that is calling for protests could having the blessings of Jubilee leadership. He said the president's decision to reach out to Raila's wing of the Azimio coalition might have triggered discomfort within Jubilee faction which he said is now "pushing for protests". "Your excellency, we are reading in between the lines because sometimes you could be focusing on the wrong people," he said. "We don't understand why when the opposition leader is outside the country there some people talking here how to sponsor protests." Earlier, Embu governor Cecily Mbarire had claimed that the planned protests by Azimio are being bankrolled by some tycoons who met in Mombasa. But Njuki, who lauded Mbarire for coming close to naming the leader, insisted that Jubilee leadership must be interrogated carefully on what their plans are. In veiled attacks, the leaders insinuated that the decision by Jubilee Secretary General Jeremiah Kioni could have had the blessings of retired President Uhuru Kenyatta to attack the Kenya Kwanza government. Kioni had last week claimed that Raila, not Ruto, won the August 9 presidential elections. "Let him come out and face me and stop sending that man from Ndaragwa," Gachagua said during the thanksgiving service. Kioni is the immediate former Ndaragwa MP.