Digital strategist Dennis Itumbi has sensationally claimed there was a “container of death” at a police station near State House. He said the 'container' was used by rogue officers to torture victims before executing them. In a tweet, Itumbi describes how the container was moved from one station to the other before it was finally taken to the DCI headquarters. This, he said, happened before President William Ruto was sworn into office on September 13. “It was moved from the parking area of the police station near State House and EACC to DCI headquarters,” he tweeted. Detailing how a boss at the DCI with the support of junior officers tried unsuccessfully to evade questions about the container, Itumbi said a last-minute decision was made to move it from Milimani police station to the DCI headquarters. At this point, Itumbi stated, Ruto kept asking questions which he said continued to unsettle the would-be quarters. “A location is identified, phone calls made to juniors in Milimani and time set. Operation ficha mission accomplished,” he wrote. The police were, however, not immediately available for a comment on the allegations. The revelations by Itumbi come hours after Ruto went on record saying he fired former DCI boss George Kinoti due to the increased extrajudicial killings in the country. "There was a container at the Nairobi area where people were being slaughtered- in a police station- I mean how did we end up there? What kind of a rogue institution was that? That is why I fired that Kinoti man," Ruto said during a media interview on Wednesday night. Itumbi points out that as Ruto piled pressure on the matter, some of the rogue officers involved started to expose it in a bid to escape. “In the quest for survival, the officers started talking. Horror stories begin to emerge; phone conversations and graphical pictures on WhatsApp shared with 'The Boss' to confirm the mission is accomplished are shared,” he added. He argued that after all these the officers went into a celebratory mood for allegedly pulling off a move to conceal the truth. The container splashed with blood, Itumbi says, has now been “hidden carefully” and paints a horror picture of how victims met their fate after being tortured for days.