Kisumu Governor Anyang' Nyong'o on Saturday flagged off a team of players that will represent the county in the upcoming Kenya Inter- Counties Sports and Cultural Association games. The 9th edition of the annual KICOSCA games will start on Monday at the Jomo Kenyatta International Sports Complex. The event will officially be opened by the Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua. A total of 38 counties have confirmed their participation with at least 8,000 players expected to take part in the different sporting and cultural activities lined up for the week. The games will be held in 13 venues including the Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium in Mamboleo, Moi stadium, Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Sports centre, Kisumu National Polytechnic, Kasagam Secondary School, Lions High School and Kisumu School. Other venues are Kisumu Day Secondary school, the Aga Khan Hall, Mama Grace Onyango Social Hall, the Rotary Training Center, Cosmopolitan Club and the Nyanza Golf Club. Nyong'o noted that they have identified, booked and prepared various hotels and learning institutions that will accommodate the delegates. This, he said, was done in close consultation with the National Executive Committee and the competing counties. The governor said schools and colleges have allowed the county government to use their halls of residence because students are currently on long holiday. "The accommodation facilities have been inspected and fumigated by the department of Public Health," Nyong’o said. He noted that the event will boost the economy not only for Kisumu but across the neighbouring counties. "I want to appeal to small and medium-scale traders to seize this opportunity to provide services to the guests in an organised manner,” he said. KICOSCA games was founded in 2013 at the onset of devolution. It morphed from the old association, previously known as the Kenya Inter-Municipalities Sports and Cultural Association- KIMSCA. The games aim to give employees from across the counties an opportunity to exhibit their sporting talents and to interact and learn from each other’s cultural orientations. It also enables the staff to benchmark and have a health break to help drive productivity. Since its inception, Kicosca games have been hosted by Nairobi, Nakuru, Uasin Gishu, Kiambu, Machakos, Kisii, Kericho and Embu counties.