A tribunal sitting in Nairobi on Friday temporarily stopped the suspension of KANU embattled Secretary General Nick Salat pending a hearing on the matter. Salat had moved to court to stop his removal from the party. Desma Nungo, Chairperson of Political Parties Disputes Tribunal ( PPDT) said the notice of motion application on January 19, 2023  was filed under Certificate of Urgency for consideration ex-parte in this first instance only. " That pending inter parties hearing of the application, interim conservatory orders are hereby issued staying the implementation of the 2nd Respondent’s letter dated 15th December 2022 suspending the Applicant as the Secretary General of the Party given under my hand and seal of the Honourable Tribunal this 20th day of January 2023," reads the stay orders. Nungo said the notice of motion application on January 19, 2023  was filed under Certificate of Urgency for consideration ex-parte in this first instance only. As a result, PPDT chairperson ordered that the respondents to file and serve their responses to within five days. The KANU National Executive Council was mentioned as the first respondent while Former Baringo Senator Gideon Moi was mentioned as the second. The matter will be mentioned before a Nairobi court on January 27, 2023 at 2:30pm to confirm compliance and for further directions. On December 15, 2022, the Kenya African National Union (KANU) party suspended Salat as its Secretary-General. In a letter by the party leader, Moi said the party had resolved to dismiss Salat owing to claims of misconduct. Kanu has named a team of six members of its National Disciplinary Committee (NEC)  to deliberate on the case against suspended party Secretary-General Nick Salat. The Committee which will be chaired by Kilgoris MP Julius Sunkuli, will look into accusations against Salat which include gross misconduct and violation of the party constitution. Other members include Ali Ogle, Joshua Mukirae, Gladwell Tungo (Vice Chairperson), Arnold Otieno (secretary) and Josephine Leado. Kanu Director of Communication Joseph Towett said the decision by the  NEC to refer Salat's case to the Disciplinary Committee was informed by two complaints lodged against him. The complaints were lodged by the KANU MCA and PWD Caucuses through their respective Chairpersons, Handman Saya and Adinuur Ali. It was alleged that Salat made insolent remarks that belittled the person, stature and office of the National Chairman. He also berated the party’s long-term partner organisations in the presence of their senior international officials despite our longstanding cordial relationship and cooperation.