Strathmore Scorpions coach Meshack Senge wants his players to take advantage of the home ground and excel in the next month's African Club Championship in Nairobi  after past heartbreaks. Kenyan clubs have in the past given the annual continental Club Premier competition a wide berth, owing to financial constraints much to the displeasure of players. The former decade-long serving national men's coach reckons that even though the logistical challenge remains a major stumbling block, players have no excuse with the event being staged on home soil. Wazalendo were the only team to represent the country last year. Record national women's league champions Blazers haven't graced the occasion since 2019 and the withdrawal of their sponsor Telkom in 2020 offered a bleak future. Butali, who have won the past four men's titles, are yet to take part in the event. "The players must brace up for the showdown in Nairobi. The tournament would be vital for psychological improvement and exposure and the experience will be invaluable," he said. "It's very demoralising to win the league but fail to play in ACCC but I want my players to maintain their standards." Scorpions and Butali have already booked their slots after winning the title and the remaining two automatic slots will likely be decided at the end of the season. Strathmore gave their players a three-week break but the team returned to training this week in preparation for their remaining two league matches. "We could have lost something during the break but not too much. Recovery won't be a problem for us. Every game is important even though we are already champions," he noted. He added: "Scorpions will always want to give their best and have fun in tournaments. If we give our best in the ACCC,  then we will have the results to smile about." Senge further weighed in on the tough rebuilding task he experiences every season. "We are always a team in transition. Worryingly, we lose our most experienced players after completing their studies. It is hard to dominate this league. If  I have the luxury of longevity, it would be nice but my team will always remain inexperienced."