Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Wesley Rotich has secured funding for Sh27 million oxygen piping at major hospitals to increase access to quality healthcare. The system will be operable in three months in May this year, officials said. Rotich secured a Sh100 million grant worth of equipment and infrastructure support extended by the African Medical and Research Foundation (Amref). It will ensure sustained and reliable access to liquid medical oxygen in health facilities. The Iten County Referral Hospital is among seven major hospitals that will benefit. Others are Tambach Subcounty Hospital, Chepkorio Health Centre, Cheptongei, Chesoi, Tot Subcounty Hospital and Kapsowar Mission Hospital which will benefit from  central medical oxygen piping to the beds. "The piping will bring to an end the wheeling of oxygen cylinders to the wards and theatre by hospital staff," Rotich said. Provision of healthcare is among the pillars in Rotich’s development plan and he says the piping was a major life-saving measure. “This will also provide access to better medical care for all hustlers within our county who often miss out on such critical health needs like oxygen because of high costs or lack of it," Rotich said. Previously patients in need of oxygen support had to be taken to high-end hospitals where the costs are not affordable by many people. Under the Amref funding, Iten County Referral Hospital will get a Sh32 million 3,000-litre oxygen plant with a 20-cylinder back-up oxygen manifold and oxygen piping to 50 beds. Another 300 oxygen cylinders will be distributed to all health facilities across the county. Refilling will be done at Iten County and Referral Hospital. "With such a reliable supply of oxygen we will be able to save lives of our people. Oxygen supply, especially during emergencies, is a critical matter and by having it in our hospitals will greatly assist our patients," Rotich said. All the surgical theaters, accident and emergency units, the radiology section and maternity units will be piped with oxygen. Others include the wards and mother and baby unit. Dr Bernard Langat, Amref's disease control and prevention programme director, said complete installation and delivery of the equipment will be in three months. "Upon delivery, challenges of access to medical oxygen will be a thing of the past. Work begins in February and expected to be completed by May 2023," he said. The project will save the county about Sh1 million monthly used to refill the oxygen cylinders outside the county. (Edited by V. Graham)