Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot has come to the defence of Mulot saying they are IT wizards who have nothing to do with their skills. The senator said Mulot area of Bomet county which has been in the limelight for technology-related criminal activities is a hub for IT in Kenya. "These young boys are IT experts but they committed the crimes just because of idleness," Cheruiyot said. The senator was speaking during a prayer event held at Bomet Green Stadium in Bomet county. "There are people sitting in Nairobi calling themselves IT experts but our young men here in Bomet can destroy all those software from this place," he added. Cheruiyot urged President William Ruto to approve funds to set up hubs that will help improve the welfare of youths. Detectives unmasked the suspected mastermind of the infamous Mulot SIM swap syndicate in December. The DCI claimed that the suspect is a dangerous criminal who has previously served time in prison and has several cases and warrants of arrest hanging around his neck, allegations the Star could not independently verify. The identification of the suspect, DCI said,  followed comprehensive investigations by the detectives based at the elite Crime Research & Intelligence Bureau. The sleuths believed that the mastermind is de facto leader of the criminal enterprise, responsible for the SIM swap scam. Here, phone scammers hijack a victim’s cell phone number and use it to gain access to sensitive personal data and bank accounts through the mobile banking applications available on mobile phones, claims the Star could not also verify. In a recent case leading to the arrest of two of his alleged accomplices, the suspects had allegedly siphoned Sh941,000 from a bank account belonging to a legislator from Rift Valley. The legislator was out of the country on official duties between December 2 and 3 this month. Following the incident reported by the legislator, one of the mastermind's alleged lieutenants was tracked down by detectives and arrested in  Mulot.