Kakamega beat neighbours Busia County 3-1 to lift the football title as the curtains came down on the Kenya Inter County Sports and Cultural Association (Kicosca) Games. In the game that was dubbed ‘Mulembe’ derby, Kennedy Wandiri scored a brace for Kakamega while Alloys Mangi added the third. Moses Anyango scored Busia county’s consolation goal in the game that was played at Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium at Mamboleo. The game was attended by host governor Anyang’ Nyong’o, Kakamega’s Fernandez Baraza and Nairobi’s Johnson Sakaja. Kakamega coach Hesborn Nyabinge said: “It was a tough competition but I’m happy we emerged winners. We are now turning our focus to this year’s edition to be held in Kilifi County in August.” Busia assistant coach Victor Wanyonyi conceded defeat: “We live to fight another day." In the semis, Kakamega beat Nakuru 1-0 while Busia stormed the final after a narrow 1-0 win over West Pokot. Nairobi County, captained by Josephine Thiongo, bagged the women’s volleyball title after a 3-0 (25-20, 25-21, 25-21) win over Bungoma in the final that was played at Kisumu National Polytechnic. Thiongo said: “We cannot say we won because Uasin Gishu were disqualified. We won because we were well prepared for this tournament.” The final was delayed up to 1pm on Saturday after Uasin Gishu appealed against their disqualification for fielding an ineligible player. The appeal was, however, thrown out. Defending champions Uasin Gishu settled for the bronze medal after beat8ng Kakamega by straight sets of 25-18, 25-20, 25-18. Uasin Gishu retained the men’s title after overcoming debutants and the tournament’s surprise package Tana River 3-0. Earlier, Tana River had eliminated hosts Kisumu in the quarters and Nakuru in the semi finals. In the third-place play off, Kiambu defeated Nakuru by straight sets of 25-19, 25-18 and 25-08. Hosts Kisumu County won the men’s tug of war title after a 3-0 win over favourites Laikipia County. In the women’s category, Kisii proved too strong for Kakamega, winning 3-0.