Petrol station owners can now monitor their stock and payments in real time, credit to a new system launched by Pesapal. The monitoring solution seeks to enable petrol station operators automate their fuel and retail management processes by connecting distribution points and digital payments, backed up with tools to reduce costs and pilfering, while improving customer experience. According to Pesapal’s CEO Agosta Liko, the system will manage the flow of fuel from the storage tanks to the dispensing pumps, as well as monitor fuel levels and control the operation of other systems and devices on the forecourt. “This will enhance improved efficiency, fraud prevention, easy reconciliation, remote monitoring and real-time reporting on activities,” Liko said. Cases of fuel stations being victims of fraud and other forms of crime have been on the rise in the recent past in the country, of which the establishment of this solution will seek to counter. “The solution automates the payment systems and how the price displays, since Pesapal integrates mobile money, cards and online payments,” Liko added. This comes at a time when independent petrol station operators and large forecourt networks are changing up their business models with convenience services, new fuels and battery charging. However, the payment service company notes that it makes it a more exciting, complex and risky game to be in, but are committed to helping petrol station owners automate and digitise to allow them focus on business growth. Petrol station owners across the country and the East Africa region at large, are noted to be consistently decrying about lack of affordable monitoring and data tools for the changing environment. Many owners are reported to be in the need to transform their forecourt into a multi-use hub to streamline with the transforming world which is looking to decarbonise as our cities and communities get more mobile. Ranging from the use of different types of transport, changing fuels and the new finance and subscription products, Forecourts could be the frontline of this transformation as they will have more moving parts and different retail, energy and fuel suppliers. The solution has been launched in Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania, being the first solution developed specifically for Africa.