A video has emerged online showing primary school pupils confessing to sodomising each other at what appears to be a school in the Coastal region. The clip has caused uproar online with Kenyans lamenting at how the country is raising a rotten generation that's been let down by poor parenthood. In the video, the children are questioned by a female teacher to point out the names of their colleagues with whom they have been engaging in the anal-copulation. "Huyu anakalianga na nani?" the teacher asks. "Huyu anakalianga na Omari, akimaliza huyu, huyu hapa anakaa hivi huyu hapa anakuja kukalia juu yake," a boy then explains. The teacher inquires further: "Akiwa ana nguo ama anavua nguo? (While dressed or naked?) Boy: "Akiwa amevua nguo, ako uchi (While naked). The boy then goes on to describe the buggery in vulgar, painting a picture of young boys engaging in gay orgies. Sodomy is a felony under Section 162 of the Kenyan Penal Code, punishable by 14 years imprisonment. Any sexual practices between males (termed "gross indecency") are a felony under section 165 of the same statute, punishable by 5 years imprisonment. All through the 2:20 minute clip, one boy after the other is summoned by the lady recording the clip and each confesses to having engaged in the act with a colleague. The boys further confess that they normally engage in the act at a place called Mkogozi. Another boy said they normally do it at a place called Kizubo. "Mimi nasikia Mkogozi, Mkogozi sipajui. Si tunaendanga Kizubo, ikafika siku mamangu akanigundua akanipeleka hosipitali ndio maana hiyo kesi ndio ikaashi hadi sahi Kizubo ndio hatuendi," he said. "I don't know about Mkogozi. We normally go to Kizubo but my mother found out and took me to hospital and that's how I stopped going there) Another boy confessed to having gone there on the first day to just watch what happens. But on the second day, he did it. "Siku ya kwanza ulitulia unaangalia mchezo?" the teacher asked. The boy nodded in affirmation but his colleagues disputed the version of his story and insisted that he did it even on the first day. "Siku ya kwanza umefanya, umeoga (You did it on the first day, you bathed)," one boy said.