Azimio leader Raila Odinga is facing investigations by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations over a dossier on alleged manipulation of the 2022 presidential election. Raila,who lost narrowly to President William Ruto, is banking on the alleged dossier by 'an IEBC insider' to allege manipulation of votes in the last polls. The opposition leader has claimed that he won the elections, contrary to the results officially declared by the IEBC, asking Ruto to resign from office. Raila has launched an aggressive political campaign to discredit Ruto's win and has planned a series of political rallies across the country to resist the Kenya Kwanza government. The DCI has now opened investigations seeking to establish the authenticity of the dossier by Raila's IEBC whistleblower, thrusting the opposition boss into possible summons. The probe will also investigate Raila's claim that Azimio won the presidential election. The DCI is expected to establish whether the dossier is a forgery and falsification against the IEBC and Ruto. The investigations will focus on the alleged Forms 34B that Raila claims affirm his victory against Ruto. In a letter seen by the Star, addressed to IEBC CEO Marjan Hussein, DCI boss Mohamed Amin said the investigations agency had received complaints of the alleged fake forms. “The Directorate has received numerous correspondences and complaints relating to information circulating across diverse online which is attributed to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. Our attention has also been drawn to various documents alleged to be the “official” election results of the Presidential elections held on 9th August 2022,” the letter reads. “For purposes of lawful processing of the complaints referred above in line with our mandate, we hereby request that you furnish us with the certified copies of forms 34B that were used to tally, verify and declare the results of the presidential elections of 9th August 2022." Raila is yet to be formally summoned to shed light on the dossier. Amin said the complainants whom he did not reveal insist that there are various manipulations in the documents. He added that the forms alleged to have come from the electoral commission have inconsistencies. “The Directorate is investigating the validity and authenticity of the documents in question, in addition to whether offences relating to forgery and falsification of documents have been committed under Sections 345-348 of the Penal Code. Further, the Directorate will undertake investigations in relation to provisions of sections 22 and 23 of the Computer Misuse and Cybercrimes Act, 2018,” the DCI said. Raila has claimed that Azimio has the official presidential results, arguing that the figures vindicate his claim that he won the polls. According to Raila a whistleblower who works for the IEBC had provided them with evidence that Raila won the election with about 2.2 million votes, but was rigged out. The dossier, which is yet to be authenticated, claimed Raila garnered 8,170,355 votes or 57.53 per cent of votes cast against President William Ruto's 5,915,973 votes (41.66 per cent of votes cast). 