Gor Mahia's experienced left-back, Geoffrey Ochieng, is confident the club will book a Caf Champions League berth this season. Gor have endured a difficult two years, losing the title and failing to reach the continent's elite show. Ochieng expressed confidence that the situation is about to change as they tirelessly fight to regain their lost glory. The industrious defender, who turned in a Man-of-the-Match performance during the epic Mashemeji derby duel on Sunday, was emphatic they're not ready to shiver in the cold for another season. “We are aiming for nothing less than a continental appearance this season and I believe we have already set the season in motion," Ochieng said in an exclusive interview on Monday. "The entire squad is eager to win the title, and we are working hard to make that happen," he added. The record Kenyan champions currently place second on the log with 24 points, three adrift of the competition's dark horses and surprise leaders Nzoia Sugar. Despite Nzoia emerging from the shadows and turning the tables on the league's big guns, Ochieng and his teammates are unfazed. "Our sole goal is to reach the summit. We know someone is ahead of us and is working very hard to stay there. However, we will go to any length to reclaim the title this season," Ochieng stated. In the eleven games they have played this season, Gor have won seven and lost one and are not about to let their feet off the pedal. Ochieng said the success of the club this season was due to the joint efforts of the coaches, players, and their fans who adore them. He, especially, extolled K'Ogalo's zealous fans who have been showing up in large numbers to support the team. Ochieng went on to say that the fans' unwavering support had been instrumental in the team's success thus far. "We are grateful to our loyal fans who have stood with us even during the most trying moments. Things could have been difficult without their assistance. I encourage them to continue coming to our games to cheer us on," Ochieng said. He, on the other hand, challenged authorities to give local stadiums the necessary facelift because their poor condition hampered the quality of play. "Gor Mahia is known for playing tiki-taka football, which necessitates a flat and smooth playing surface. Most of our pitches are subpar, making it difficult for us to perform to our full potential in games. The federation should seek out better fields and improve on those that already exist."