Slain Nyamira teacher Ezekiel Nkeere Gitangwa, 47 might have been killed in a love triangle saga. Investigations on the disappearance and murder of the teacher have narrowed down to whether the deceased was involved in a love triangle involving the nurse where his body was found on the new year, December1, 2023. Detectives suspect Gitangwa was in a romantic relationship with Agneta Agwata, a nurse at Nyamaiya health centre. Gitangwa was also married to Gladys Achoki. According to villagers who have spoken to the police, Gitangwa was not the only man in Agneta’s life. Apparently, Agneta who had since gone missing is a person of interest. Reports suggest she was arrested in Nakuru on Monday, January 2, 2023. The men who are now persons of interest in the investigation have been frequent visitors at Agneta’s house for unknown reasons, police say. Police are trying to establish whether Gitangwa walked into a trap and who else could have been involved in his murder. Gitangwa was reported missing by his wife Gladys Achoki when he failed to return home after being dropped on Friday, December 30, 2022 morning by a boda-boda rider at Egesieri village in West Mugirango. A search was mounted and led to a house in Egesieri belonging to one Agneta Agwata, a nurse at Nyamaiya Health Centre. Police gained entry by breaking the door to the house since the nurse was not present. Gitangwa’s body was found hidden in a room used for keeping poultry wrapped in a purple carpet. The matter has since been taken over by the Nyamira County DCI headquarters who are trailing the nurse who is suspected to have escaped to Nakuru after switching off her phone where she was found on Monday. The slain teacher’s mobile phone is also yet to be found. Police suspect it was taken by his killers who switched it off. Gitwanga was to emcee a wedding at Nyamira P.AG church on Friday the day he went missing. The teacher was an ardent user of Tiktok and had posted a video just days to his death. In the video where the teacher is seen lip-syncing to Enock Jona’s ‘Tenda kwangu nipate Ushuhuda’ asking God to bless him.