Kakamega County started off with an impressive performance in various categories in the 9th edition of the Kenya Inter-County Sports and Cultural Association-KICOSA happening in Kisumu county. Former men's soccer champions Kakamega County grabbed their first win by thrashing Narok County 3-1 in an entertaining Pool D match played at the Kisumu National Polytechnic, Tuesday morning. Ken Wandiri who is rediscovering his form netted two goals for the winning side while veteran Kenyan international Alloyce Maingi added the extras. Narok's consolation goal was scored by Tikani Saitoti. In the second match, the drubbing of Kericho County, Maingi and Wandiri combined so well with the former netting a hat trick while Wandiri scored one goal. At the Jaramogi Oginga Odinga grounds, Murang'a County suffered a humiliating 25-2 defeat to Kakamega County in Netball. The winners also pulled a surprise 19-11 win against defending champions Bungoma County in their second match, making it two wins in two matches on day one. Tug of War ladies defending champions Kakamega continued with their winning ways easily seeing off Embu by 2 sets to zero in their second match of the tournament. Their male counterparts weighing in at 677kgs, proved too strong for their neighbours Uasin Gishu County who weighed in at 674kgs, defeating them by 3 sets to 1. Volleyball Ladies also registered a win of 3 sets to 1 against Nyeri. It was however a bad day for their male counterparts who lost their two matches against Nakuru and Murang'a. In the indoor games, Kakamega bounced back to win in the singles against Kilifi County proceeding to the knockout stage where they face Samburu tomorrow. Kakamega men doubles also eliminated Kilifi County to set a date with Samburu on Wednesday at Milimani Resort hall. Kakamega's Ajua team playing at the Kasagame School beat last edition's runners up Nakuru County to top their pool. Kakamega County, the Green Jewel, enters day three of the competitions in high spirits, with a winning mentality. Last Sunday, Kakamega governor Fernandes Barasa flagged off a strong team of 163 athletes to represent the County in the fete which commenced on January 16 this year. Volleyball Ladies also registered a win of 3 sets to 1 against Nyeri. It was however a bad day for their male counterparts who lost their two matches against Nakuru and Murang'a. In the indoor games, Kakamega bounced back to win in the singles against Kilifi County proceeding to the knockout stage where they face Samburu tomorrow. Kakamega men doubles also eliminated Kilifi County to set a date with Samburu on Wednesday at Milimani Resort hall. Kakamega's Ajua team playing at the Kasagame School beat last edition's runners up Nakuru County to top their pool. Kakamega County, the Green Jewel, enters day three of the competitions in high spirits, with a winning mentality. Last Sunday, Kakamega governor Fernandes Barasa flagged off a strong team of 163 athletes to represent the County in the fete which commenced on January 16 this year.