A Nairobi court has declined to discharge two auctioneers linked to the demolition of Sh20 million house in Westlands. Zachary Baraza and Nathaniel Kipkemboi had sought the court to discharge them based on other criminal cases that have been discharged by the director of public prosecutions. In a ruling delivered on Monday by Milimani chief magistrate Wendy Muchemi, she said that the subordinate court lacks jurisdiction to interpret the law the same is bestowed upon the superior court. “The court in its own motion cannot interfere with the discretion of the DPP to prefer criminal charges against the accused persons,” she said. Muchemi said the decision by the DPP to withdraw the anti-corruption case against Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua, CS Aisha Jumwa and business lady Mary Wambui cannot be equated against the two accused person case. The court said the counsel appearing for the two accused persons did not cite any law or file a petition or affidavit to support his argument seeking withdrawal of charges against his clients. The magistrate said the argument by the accused person’s lawyer faulting the charges, especially the first charge saying she may have questions but she cannot rule she is not allowed to look at the evidence before hearing the case. The court cannot withdraw a case that has been validly filed. Let the parties file the application before the High court as it needs to be given all the weight it deserves, she said. She said there is a serious flaw in the criminal justice system.  The court is more worried because the application comes when there are reforms in the office of the DPP. “I dismiss the application and direct that the parties appear before the right court to address their issues,” the magistrate ruled. The two were charged with two counts of robbery with violence and malicious property damage. Prosecutors allege that the offences occurred on November 4, 2022, when Baraza was evicting Niraj Batuk Shah and his wife Avani Niraj from their home situated at Westlands school lane in Nairobi. The matter will be mentioned on January 30 to fix the hearing date.