When a three-star retired General Humprey Njoroge was looking for his girlfriend in Nairobi, he did not know that will cause panic among residents. In his memoir—Promises To Keep and Miles To Go, the General recalled his routine visit to his girlfriend, now wife Virginia, every weekend he was in Nairobi in his full combat uniform. By then, the General was a Second lieutenant based in Nakuru while Virginia worked in Nairobi. In the company of his fellow army man, Captain Marsden Madoka, they would go looking for Virginia who would be hanging out with their would-be future family friend — Stephen Nganga. The General said that he and Madoka were known to be aggressive young military officers. The two would always dress up in their combat uniforms whenever they went to Nairobi to see his girlfriend. "We were normally in combat uniform and used a military vehicle fitted with a radio," the General said. "Once when we drove there, the whole research station thought that there was a big raid by the military, only to discover that we were looking for my girlfriend." The two met when the General was still a young officer.  The couple would continue with their friendship till they decided to settle down. "As life continued, we became committed, got engaged and arranged to get married," the General said. Virginia's parents lived in Eldoret.  Bride price negations came and the General was required to pay 100 goats. "We paid Sh20,000 in cash—a lot of money then," the General said. Virginia's wealthy uncle said that it was not enough and told us off saying we should bring more. "However, Virginia's mother was very firm. She said that as a Christian she would not allow the ceremony to continue according to the Kikuyu traditions," the General said. He said they were allowed to pay what they had and later continue with the payment because marriage is not about buying a spouse but a continuing process. "My mother-in-law's position that the process was continuous impressed me," the General said, The two proceeded to have a military wedding on July 4, 1970. "It was the most memorable occasion because the families on both sides had not witnessed a military wedding before," he said. The General said that the wedding was held on the military training grounds in Lanet College and a beautiful reception was held at the mess. "There was, however, one big challenge; while beer must be served at military weddings, my mother-in-law could not tolerate it," he said. So, a plan was hatched in which those drinking would be served outside the mess.  But somehow the plan went awry. The General said that in their opinion since the event was in a military mess, beer had to be served. Ultimately it was served. "It was a rather intense situation, but there was no option," he said. General Njoroge and Virginia are blessed with four sons, Robert, Sam, Timo and Andrew. Njoroge said that initially, marriage in uniform in Kenya was not allowed. "But eventually there was a policy shift," the General said. He added that women were not allowed to marry and were habitually treated differently from men in the army. He says, however, the challenge remaining was and is what happens if an officer falls in love with a soldier.