The Health CS Susan Wafula has announced plans by the government to construct a modern 2,000-bed multi-specialty Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital (MTRH) in Kiplombe. The move, she said, is part of ongoing reforms aimed at enhancing access to quality and affordable healthcare in the country. Wafula said the the designs of the facility are ready, with the government seeking a proper financing mechanism to start the project. The CS spoke in Eldoret during a tour of hospital on Tuesday where she held talks with the CEO Dr Wilson Aruasa. Wafula lauded the hospital management for exemplary performance that has seen the facility named the best semi-autonomous government agency at the Health ministry for the last six years in performance management system. “The Ministry of Health will address the budgetary needs raised by MTRH management to ensure MTRH meets all her staffing, training, equipment and other needs,” she said. “This will place MTRH at a sound pedestal in her contribution to achievement of universal health coverage for the Kenyan people.” She said the ministry will assist with equipping and staffing of the hospital whose construction is expected to be completed in the next one and a half years. Wafula said the government, through the Ministry of Health, has initiated key governance reforms targeting, among others, NHIF and Kemsa as it seeks to bring down the cost of healthcare. According to the CS, the government has also amalgamated some schemes, including the Linda Mama programme, as well as the planned scale up of the health insurance subsidy programme for the poor and most vulnerable to five million indigent households over the next three years. Dr Aruasa said the hospital remains integral in ongoing health reforms serving as a nucleus for 22 counties as well as attending to patients from neighbouring countries. Citing the MTRH Nawiri Recovery and Skills project that provides mental health patients with opportunities of economic development skills, the CEO said the facility has adopted innovative concepts to help deal with existing challenges.  (edited by Amol Awuor)