Butali Warriors team manager Victor Opere wants his charges to secure the Kenya Hockey Union Premier league title with a win over Sailors at City Park Stadium on Sunday. The sugar millers need just a point to seal a fourth consecutive league title after opening a five-point gap over second-placed Western Jaguars. Opere said Butali cannot take their opponents lightly, urging his players to get the job done as quickly as possible. They face perennial rivals Police in their last match of the season. "We need to pick up from where we were before the Christmas break. Every team wants to win but we have a duty to seal the title at the City Park Stadium on Sunday," said Opere. Butali, captained by the Constant Wakhura, recorded 6-0 and 1-0 wins against Mombasa Sports Club and USIU-A Mashujaa respectively before the break. They also remain unbeaten in 16 matches this season alongside Strathmore Scorpions, who were crowned women's champions in November last year. Kenyatta University Titans were promoted to the women's top tier unbeaten. Butali are guaranteed an African Club Championship slot but Opere wants the league's top-scorer Festus Onyango to bag more goals in the battle for the  golden boot. The former Strathmore Gladiators captain Onyango has 13 goals thus far. "He's been a shining light since we signed him. Being crowned top scorer will be a big motivation for him ahead of the ACCC in February," Opere said. In other matches, Police lock horns with both Parkroad Badgers and Greensharks on Saturday and Sunday respectively. Greensharks have survived relegation in a turbulent season. Badgers and MSC have been relegated. The league returnees found the going tough in the cut-throat league—managing two and one wins to finish ninth and 10th respectively. In the men's Super League, Multimedia University (MMU) face Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology. Parklands have a date with Parkroad Tigers, Sikh Union host Nakuru at Dashmesh Stadium along Forest Road as Wazalendo Masters rub shoulders with MMU.