The Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology-MMUST has partnered with the Centre for Earth System Research and Sustainability at the University of Hamburg in Germany for a baseline survey on the human conflict in Mt Elgon. Last week, a team of researchers from the Centre visited MMUST to finalize details of an agreement that will equally see the two sides conduct collaborative research on the biosphere of Mt Elgon. The Deputy Vice Chancellor for Planning, Research and Innovation at MMUST Charles Mutai while presiding over the event, divulged that the study will involve a baseline survey on human conflicts as well as how nature is conserved on Mt. Elgon. The data will be taken to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization-UNESCO for analysis according to Mutai. “The collaboration will enable us to explore the areas of human conflict around Mt Elgon and basically how nature conservation has happened or is happening in the area. We will then compile the data and send it to UNESCO for analysis and thereafter relevant action," said Mutai. Mutai pointed out that the university is keen on conducting research that is geared towards changing the lives of the community. He stated that research was a major part of the institution’s mandate adding that it was equally committed to supporting any efforts on the same. He revealed that the university has quite a number of active research projects that are currently ongoing and that about ten have since won lucrative international grants. “Geography is a unique area where we need to train many people. We have the same interest in this area of research and selecting Mt. Elgon as an area of study will definitely cause diversity in research," he said. The don noted that such research will improve the social health system of the community through indigenous medicine which is boosting the medical healthcare sector in addressing various health complications. According to the MMUST Dean School of Education-SEDU Moses Poipoi, the study will document the contribution of relevant bodies, challenges faced and solutions needed to support nature conservancy. He noted that the research will impact the community through outreach activities in training them on environmental conservation. “We are pleased to collaborate with the University of Hamburg in terms of research and exchange programmes as we look forward to signing a Memorandum of Understanding,” said Poipoi. Hamburg University’s Project Coordinator in the department of Geography Simon Strobelt acknowledged that the University has been supportive and open-minded in professional experience. “We have a common interest in nature conservation and this will enable long-term cooperation as we interact in the field of research. We have a lot to learn. Let us come together and construct knowledge,” he said. He noted that the collaborative research will definitely impact the conservation of land and water on which all life depends. “The research will create a world where the diversity of life thrives, and people act to conserve nature for its own sake and its ability to fulfil our needs and enrich our lives," said Strobelt. The research will be conducted within the next three weeks. Others from the University of Hamburg included Michele Von Kocemba and a student, William Vargas while the MMUST team included the Registrar, Alice Ndiema, Associate Dean, SEDU Kennedy Bota, CoD Geography Nalyanya Wasike, Senior Lecturer in the Department of Educational Planning and Management Paul Ogenga, and Geography student James Kimutai.