One of the two warring groups in the Keek-Onyokie Land Trust has handed its leadership to the Kajiado County Government. The Moses Parantai-led group on Saturday held a community assembly and dissolved the Keek-Onyokie land trust. The group handed over the its trustees and the leadership of the land in Kibiku to the county. This in essence means that Parantai and his officials will no longer have anything to do with the 2,800-acre-land. The county will now make all the decisions on behalf of the Keek-Onyokie community. While addressing the Annual General Meeting in the Kibiku land near Ngong, Parantai showed copies of the trust land and its Green Card. “Our land is intact, and today we are dissolving the community’s trustees and handing over the tools of power to the county government. From now on, the county will manage the community land on behalf of our people,” said Parantai. Present during the community ceremony are the former Kajiado senator Peter Mositet and politician Joseph Simel. A group of women attending the community assembly led by Grace Parmuat claimed that some of their elected leaders had failed to guide members of the community over the Kibiku land. “Soon, we will work with other county leaders and see how we can recall them. We elected them so that they can unite us and resolve this Kibiku land issue that has taken years to resolve,” said Parmuat. Meanwhile, the Moses Monik-led team kept away from the Saturday meeting in Kibiku and insisted that the meeting was not properly convened as provided by the law. Monik claimed he is the Keek-Onyokie Land Trust Chairman and no one else can convene such kind of meeting without his authority. “That was an illegal meeting. Whatever they discussed and passed is null and void and does not affect the status of the land leadership,” said Monik. He said the Kibiku land is a private community land and which the county government has no business in. “I am the only person who was elected by the community members to oversee the running of that land and for others to come and pretend they are working with the county is unacceptable,” Monik said. Governor Joseph Lenku, two weeks ago, kicked off a campaign against the Monik team and announced that it will only work with Parantai in “securing” the land for the community. During the same time, the National Land Commission boss Gerishom Otachi wrote to the Lands CS Zacharia Njeru recommending the need to unite the two warring groups in the Kibiku land saga. Otachi argued that the members of the two groups come from the Keek-Onyokie Maasai and stakeholders of the community land. An unnamed whistle-blower from the land registry in Nairobi sparked off a big debate on the status of the Kibiku land after she rejected a letter from one of the warring groups recommending the sub-division of the land. A long list came out immediately in the public domain showing the names and IDs of people and companies that had been issued plots at the Kibiku land. Parantai and Monik have since kept their distance on the same by saying they are not even aware of the list. In the list, top officials in the national and county government with their spouses and children had been allocated pieces of land in Kibiku. Interestingly, the names of those individuals have their names attached to their IDs in the list of more than 700 individuals and companies. Meanwhile, the Kibiku residents’ association secretary Julius Matura together with the ground committee have expressed gratitude to the Kajiado county government.