Nairobi County Assembly Minority Whip Mark Mugambi has claimed his life is in danger following an early morning attack outside city hall. Addressing the media on Thursday, he claimed he was attacked by goons outside city hall at around 7:30 am. “I’m quite disturbed that someone I campaigned for can send goons to attack me for playing a role I was elected to play,” Mugambi said. The legislator claimed he got intelligence of the report on Wednesday but he brushed it off thinking it was an empty threat. “I ignored the report but today in the morning as I was about to enter the county assembly,  I met two boys in the company of others,” Mugambi explained. “One of them hit me and another one tore my shirt and my smart watch disappeared,”  he added. According to the legislator, the attack came two days after he told off Nairobi Governor Johnson Sakaja over his remark of initiating a handshake between President William Ruto and Opposition leader Raila Odinga. Going further, the Minority Whip said he was not fighting the county boss but rather playing his oversight role. He explained that since Sakaja had decided to involve Azimio in his county plans, as the minority leader, he will oversight the governor to ensure that residents get the service. Mugambi bashed the governor, claiming he has not launched any project, yet he has been holding numerous meetings. "Last week he was in Naivasha with chief officers, this week the same chief officers are in Panari and over the weekend he has invited MCAs," he said. On why he didn't report the matter to the police, the legislator said he fears for his life. Nairobi UDA MCAs are at war with each other over  Sakaja's governance. The UDA leadership at the assembly claimed that Sakaja was forcing a handshake between Opposition leader Raila Odinga and President William Ruto. "We have heard the Governor saying he will facilitate a handshake between the President and Raila, yet he clearly knows Ruto’s stand on the issue," he said. Kiragu claimed that Sakaja was more concerned with working with the opposition than respecting Ruto's wishes who is also the UDA Party leader. He claimed that Sakaja facilitated the Azimio Rally held on Monday at Kamukunji grounds. However, the pr0-Sakaja MCAs accused some members of its leadership at the county assembly of being funded by cartels to fight Sakaja. Kayole Central MCA Jeremiah Themendu claimed that a sweet deal had gone sour between some members of the UDA assembly leadership and Sakaja. Defending the county boss, Kahawa West MCA Clement Kamaru noted that Sakaja was the governor for all and not a particular side. "I’m an elected UDA MCA but does this mean I won't serve the Azimio supporters in my ward," he said. Kamaru urged Minority Leader Antony Kiragu and Minority whip Mark Mugambi to cease fighting the governor and work to deliver the Kenya Kwanza manifesto. "Our party leader and President are very clear on the manifesto. Baseless accusations and fighting Governor Sakaja is wasting time," he added. Governor Sakaja has however not responded to any of the accusations.