The High court will on Monday render its decision on the murder trial of Venezuelan envoy Olga Fonsesca. It's ten years since Fonsesca was found murdered in her Runda residence in Nairobi. She was strangled to death on July 26, 2012, less than two weeks after arriving in Kenya to head the diplomatic mission. Her body was found lying on her bed with a wire cord around her neck, hands and legs on the night of 26 and 27 July 2012. Next to her body was a pair of pliers. Evidence on record shows Olga had sex the night she was murdered, but it is unknown with whom or whether it was consensual or forced. She reported to Kenya on July 15 to replace former ambassador Gerardo Carillo Silva, who was facing allegations of sexual harassment by male workers from the embassy residence. Trial Judge Roselyn Korir is on the 16 of this month expected to pass judgement on the five accused persons who were charged with the murder. She was to deliver a verdict in the case on August 15 last year but failed after being taken ill. Dwight Sagaray, who was the Venezuelan embassy’s first secretary, was among the first suspects to be arraigned over Olga’s death. He was charged alongside Ahmed Omindo, Alex Sifuna Wanyonyi, Moses Kiprotich Kalya and Kipng'eno Kirui Chelogoi. Another suspect, Mohamed Ahmed Hassan, was never captured and the trial went on in his absence. During the pendency of the case, the prosecution called 36 witnesses. But these witnesses, according to Sagaray, failed to prove his alleged involvement in the murder. He has maintained his innocence saying he did not have any motive to kill Olga and that allegations made against him are purely circumstantial. Sagaray in his submissions before the court has shifted the blame to Ahmed, who is still at large. He adds that Venezuelan officials Jennifer Schell and her husband Miguel Herreza, and the security manning the embassy, are better placed to explain the circumstances under which Olga was killed. The embassy, he said, was manned by two guards from KK Security: One at the main gate and another one at the swimming pool about five meters away from the deceased's bedroom where she was found dead. The Venezuelan officials are said to have been the last people to be seen with Olga.