Kwale governor Fatuma Achani has welcomed the Mombasa High Court ruling to uphold her win in the August 9, 2022, general election. On Thursday, the court struck out a petition filed against Achani's victory by two voters Suleiman Mwanguku and Dziwe Zuma. The petitioners accused Achani of rigging the election and faulted IEBC for failing to conduct proper elections as per the constitution. Others petitions include the failure of Kiems kits machines and the denial of some voters to participate in the election process. However, the Mombasa High court said the complainants failed to provide substantial evidence and dismissed the cases. Speaking at her residential home in the Matuga sub-county where she was joined by supporters and family members to celebrate her victory, Achani said she was optimistic that the truth will prevail. "I was confident that things will come out clearly and everything will be known,' she said. Achani vied on UDA ticket and trounced her close competitor Hamadi Iddi Boga where she bagged 59, 674, votes against Boga's 53, 972 followed by Lung'anzi 47, 301, Mwakwere 9, 639, Ruwa 5, 562, and Dena 2, 310. Achani who could not hide her happiness said that the court's decision is enough proof that Kwale residents elected her legitimately. The governor admitted that the petition weighed heavily on her as she went through a lot of intimidation. Achani however said she has let go of the past and is ready to work together with her opponents. She said the time has passed by and the electorate wants better services. "I want to tell my friends, the case is over and my office is open for anyone," she said. Achani thanked her supporters for believing and having faith in her. She promised to work hard to provide good leadership and development. Her Deputy Chirema Kombo also extended an olive oil to the opponents adding it is time for leaders to unite and serve the common citizens. He said disunity has no place in Kwale and called upon residents to live peacefully and harmoniously.