Government surveyors are identifying and demarcating more than 1,000 acres for affordable housing in Eldoret. Governor Jonathan Bii of Uasin Gishu says they are working with the national government to ensure success of the project to ease the housing shortage. “The project will help many residents own houses,”Bii said. CS for Lands Zachariah Mwangi was in the region three weeks ago and pledged that housing works would  be done swiftly. He said President William Ruto's Kenya Kwanza administration is committed to ensuring the majority of Kenyans can own decent houses. Some of the dilapidated housing estates owned by the county government will be demolished and the land used for affordable housing. Bii said the housing projects would be part of major projects expected to transform Eldoret, which is expected to be upgraded to city status soon. The government is to invest billions on three mega projects in ahead of elevation to city status. A team handling the planned elevation is already working on its report after completing public participation. The team is headed by chamber of commerce chairman in the region Will Kenei. Eldoret is President William Ruto’s home town where he spent the recent Christmas holidays and met with leaders to discuss some of the key projects. Lands CS Zacharia Mwangi had toured the town where he met with Bii and other stakeholders to discuss the projects. The government is also developing Sh6 million retail market for fresh produce in Eldoret town. Governor Bii said the market was a pledge from President Ruto and it will replace the one that was shut down late last year following riots and looting by hawkers. Bii said the new market will be a seven-storey building with underground parking, cooling facilities for the fresh produce. It will be developed on three and half acres where the previous market was located. Eldoret also plans to set up the Eldoret Railway City within the town. It will be mainly developed on landing of the Kenya Railways. Already the corporation has agreed to host the city. Bii said the Railway city would also be a game changer for the skyline of Eldoret. (Edited by V. Graham)