County governments have been challenged to work with the national government if they want to expedite development in the devolved units. Kakamega Governor Fernandez Barasa said the collaboration will enable counties to achieve immense social and economic growth for the benefit of Kenyans. He said it would be near-impossible if the sides fail to work together since they all serve one objective which is to improve the lives of Kenyans. In that light, the governor said he was looking at working with President William Ruto in a mutual cooperation which will enable the successful completion and operationalisation of the Level 6 County Teaching and Referral Hospital and the multi-billion Bukhungu International Stadium upgrade. "The collaboration will also help us upgrade the recently commissioned Kakamega airstrip to a fully-fledged airport. All this will only be achieved if both county and national governments are working together," he said. Barasa, who chairs the Finance and Economic Affairs Committee in the Council of Governors, was speaking during a thanksgiving mass at the St. Patrick's Lufumbo Catholic church in Butere Subcounty on Sunday. Barasa expressed confidence that his collaboration with the national government will spur development in Kakamega county and improve the lives of residents by ensuring good health, wealth creation and social development. The county government of Kakamega has set aside Sh1.2 billion in the  2022/2023 financial year towards the education of bright but needy learners in the county. Under the kitty, each of the 60 wards in the county will receive Sh4 million in a move aimed at improved access to education by all. The allocation is an increase from the previous Sh2 million per ward with an objective to cater for more deserving and needy pupils and students in learning institutions across the country. Barasa said he will work with all stakeholders amongst them the MCAs to improve the living standards of the locals. With the new budgetary allocations in the county, Barasa said Sh20 million has been allocated towards flagship projects in Water, Roads and the Energy sectors. "I want to assure the MP for Shinyalu of cooperation to ensure the Airstrip Road is tarmacked even as we seek an upgrade the facility. I'm also keen to construct and operationalise Shinyalu Tea Factory which will create massive employment opportunities for our people," Barasa said.