Not all public primary schools in western will host Junior Secondary Schools. Western region coordinator of education Stephen Barongo said some 271 out of the 2,540 public primary schools in Kakamega, Bungoma, Busia and Vihiga counties are not eligible to offer junior secondary curricular. This is because of inadequate infrastructure and the population of learners. According to the Ministry of Education, schools with less than 46 pupils earmarked for admission to grade seven will have to implement the Competence Based Curriculum (CBC) for junior secondary. A total of 169,000 pupils in the region sat for the Kenya Primary school Exit Assessment (KPSEA) where 154,000 are destined for public schools while 15,000 will head to private schools. Similarly, more than 300 of the 650 registered private schools in the region met the merit to offer CBC. At Kakamega Primary School, the most populous public primary school in Kakamega town, the registration exercise was subdued by the insignificant changes in terms of infrastructure and human resources that government appears to have affected in the school. Notwithstanding, more than three hundred pupils lined up yesterday to register at their old school, which has a capacity of 512. At Kakamega Hill School, director Selfa Omulisia said early preparation for a junior secondary appears to pay off. Newly refurbished classrooms, backed by workshops, ICT and general science labs made the school steps ahead of the pack on the first day of admission. The admission exercise had the facets of a form one admission, with students given new sets of uniforms and books. They are also under a new administration from those they interacted with at the primary school level. “We want to offer continuity to the foundation we nurtured. We've put up a laboratory for computer and general science, laid Infrastructure, a workshop for welding and metal fabrication and home science rooms,” Omulisia said. Audrey Were, a parent at Kakamega Primary School said apart from the relief that came with zero levies during the admission, the scenario of the same classmates, teachers and an unchanged environment could make learning boring.