The National Cohesion and Integration Commission is calling for increased involvement of women in conflict resolution as a strategy to restore sustainable peace in conflict-ridden areas. NCIC senior programme officer Richard Nderitu said the agency has a programme tailored to train women on peace and conflict mediation, especially women groups from Isiolo, Marsabit, Garissa, Kisumu, Nairobi and the Western region. Nderitu said the programme, which is supported by the United Nations Development Programme, is being implemented by independent organisations that work with women at grassroots levels in the target counties. He added that Isiolo Peace Link organisation was selected to work with the commission, where more than 70 women from the region’s three subcounties are involved. Isiolo Peace Link executive director Abdia Muhamud said that the women were recruited from the indigenous women of the UN Resolution 1325 action groups that have been promoting women's voices in leadership in the region. She revealed that one of the selected women in the peace building initiatives was Joyce Nailisia who is also the chairperson of the Samburu community council of elders in Isiolo. Muhamud said that despite Nailisia’s highly ranked position in the Samburu community, men were still not giving her room to be heard and to make decisions because of the patriarchal orders presented by cultural models. Nailisia said that women are not involved because cultural norms forbid women to make decisions on behalf of men. She, however, said it was time for women to be given men roles like herding the cattle, adding that women would easily prevent unwarranted fights in the grazing fields that are more often caused by the aggressive nature of men. Nailisia urged the Samburu county government to come on board to intensify the roles of women in peace building, adding that she was disappointed by frequent cases of insecurity that continue to rob communities of many lives through killings.  (edited by Amol Awuor)