Karan Patel is the 2022 Kenya Motorsport Personality of the year. In his pulsating 2022 season, Patel won 10 rallies in Kenya and across Africa, eight years after the motocross convert joined rallying. In Africa, Karan won four out of six rallies in Rwanda, Tanzania, Zambia, and Kenya (Equator Rally) to finish second overall behind Leroy Gomes of Zambia. Patel sealed a maiden Kenya National Rally Championship title following a homestretch battle with Jasmeet Chana in Mwatate’s Teita Sisal estates. In total, Karan won seven events on the KNRC front. An emotional Patel remarked: “It’s such a great feeling winning the personality award after a great season of motorsport. It hasn’t sunk in yet. We will continue aiming higher and hopefully win the elusive African title.” Kenya Motor Sports Federation (KMSF) chairman Phineas Kimathi said the new ASN President Award will now become a permanent feature of the annual awards. Those recognized in this inaugural ASN President category were multiple Rally Raid bike and car champion Ross Field, legendary Safari photographer Anwar Sidi, and five-time Safari Rally winners Carl Tundo and Tim Jessop. Jasmeet Chana and his brother Ravi Chana were feted for winning the Group N Championship in their career-best season in which they wrapped up the KNRC overall class in a credible second overall position. Kimathi, who is also the WRC Safari CEO, said: “It is an honour that the 2022 edition was a truly successful season in which the Safari was voted the most followed WRC event on the FIA global series. Tonight(Saturday), we honour the stars of our sport – our national champions, and I would also like to thank all the sponsors and teams who provide such strong support.” Nairobi-based Young siblings Zane and Chantal were awarded for winning the Kenya National Rally Raid buggy class. Karting champions Shane Chandaria (Cadet), Walt Alobo (Rotax Junior Max) and Bixente Rio-Wyles (Bambino) were also honoured alongside their tarmac championship counterparts Umang Soni (4WD), Mustafa Jaffer (2WD) and top drifter Lu Jin. Umang said: “It’s not every year you have the opportunity to win titles and so I’m overly excited. I am happy I have managed to win the main tarmac 4WD championship for the second year running." The FIA Awards category saw Hamza Anwar being feted for his maiden ARC Junior Championship title as well as Rio Smith/Riyaz Ismail (ARC4) and McRae Kimathi/Mwangi Kioni (ARC3). Hamza is currently in Sweden preparing for the all-snow WRC Rally Sweden. He will participate in a full season of Junior WRC this season.