Isiolo Governor Abdi Hassan Guyo has pledged to set up a Sh50 million bursary kitty to support needy students. He said on Saturday the bursary will be set up in partnership with the CDF. "One of my campaign promises was to put education first and in 2023, the bursary kitty will ensure needy students get educated," Guyo said. “My administration aims to close the gap that exists in our human resources by training more of our youths in technical and professional courses like medicine, engineering and law.” The governor also announced that his administration will put aside  entrepreneurship empowerment fund to assist youth and women with startup capital. Guyo further said 290 acres will be made available for irrigation before mid-year to revive irrigation schemes in the county. The county government is in the process of setting up infrastructure for 70 acres in Malkadaka, 200 acres in Bulesa and 20 acres in Ngaremara to begin irrigation farming. "Reviving irrigation schemes will provide farmers with alternative livelihoods to help eradicate hunger in our country," he said. Guyo said the county will promote innovative and opportunistic farming across all wards. For water projects, the county government was given a Sh150 million grant from the Water Trust Fund to support the Sustainable Water and Sewage Program. The governor said the funds will be used to construct boreholes and other water projects in Biliqo, Bulesa, Sericho, Gubatu, Irresaboru and Gafarsa. Highlighting his achievements in the last four months, Guyo said his administration has constructed a borehole in Qone to supply water to Modogashe residents. "Water is one of the biggest challenges in Isiolo and I can say the borehole is complete while piping to Modogashe is in progress," he added. On peace and security, the county boss said plans were being finalised with the national government to establish buffer zones in hotspot areas along Isiolo and neighbouring counties. The governor said he will continue to engage with the national government and neighbouring counties in Samburu, Wajir, Garissa, Marsabit and Meru to promote peace along the borders. “We are working very closely and strategically with the national government, the office of the county commissioner and his team,” Guyo said. To curb cattle rustling and banditry, 350 Kenya Police Reservists have been deployed in the area and additional reservists approved. On health, Governor Guyo put to task deputy James Lowasa to ensure the health sector thrives. He said the health sector had received noticeable improvements evident in all facilities, especially on how services are delivered to people. “My able deputy governor should continue to ensure that all health facilities offer the necessary services, have adequate supply of drugs and efficient personnel,” Guyo said The governor urged residents to support his administration in the new year. "As your governor, I shall continue to work in 2023 to meet my civic responsibilities. That is to keep the beacon of our county lit, aimed at perfecting the quality of life of our people," he said.