Zelensky starts by asking for a minute of silence Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has just started his address in Davos Switzerland - his wife Olena is in the audience. He starts by reflecting on the tragedy this morning, which he says took the lives of the interior minister of Ukraine, his colleagues and the crew. He says they lost their lives "because of the war" and asks for people present to "honour the lives lost with a minute of silence". 'Remembering the many lives lost' Zelensky says the minute's silence helps people remember the many lives that have been lost in the war. He reflects on previous tragedies, saying it only took three minutes for a Russian missile to travel hundreds of kilometres to hit a residential block in Dnipro and kill at least 45 people a few days ago. He says the world cannot keep pace with the many challenges - such as the energy and food crises - that have come from the war. Zelensky says the world will overcome Putin The Ukrainian president continues by saying that three years ago the world was fighting Covid-19 and won, and now the world is fighting against Putin. In three years we will be discussing new challenges and threats which will mean we will definitely overcome the current threat, he says. "History repeats itself. The world either fails to notice or underestimates a threat, then it unites to resist it and then the world wins, every time." 'We didn't start the war but we have to end it' Zelensky finishes his speech and is straightaway greeted by applause from delegates in Davos. He is now facing questions and is asked about what the war looks like to him on the frontlines right now. "I think the war doesn't look good, which has not been good since the beginning," the president answers in Ukrainian. "How it looks? It looks as follows: we are standing strongly in the east of our country. "It is very important to know that we are strong, not just in the east but also inside the country. "It was not us who started the war but it is us who will have to end it." Zelensky thanks countries for their help since the conflict began but adds that Ukraine still needs help from allies to support air defence systems. Russian people need to open their eyes - Zelensky The president is asked about comments by former US Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, who suggested Ukraine must have a dialogue with Russia, as Russia must be a part of the global order. Zelensky is asked what he thinks Russia's place in the world is. He responds by saying: "I don't know the proper place for it - I think Russia has already earned a place among terrorists and this no longer depends on their leadership." Zelensky says everything depends on the strength of Ukraine and support from its partners, but also the support of the Russian society. "They have to open their eyes if they want to see the future of the Russian federation - they have to recognise their own mistakes and they will have to respect our territorial integrity." There are no accidents in war time - Zelensky One final question touches on the helicopter crash and whether Zelensky himself feels safe in his own country every day. Again in Ukrainian, he answers: "No, I am not worried about that. "I don't have anything to add here. "Nothing has changed; we still need ammunition. I am not in haste to go anywhere. The president says the war has many "dimensions" adding that "there are no accidents at war time". Zelensky finishes by saying "every individual, every death is a result of the war". He is thanked for his time and once again receives applause from the room.