Inspector General of police Japhet Koome is among those slated to give their first presentation to a task force picked to improve the conditions of service of the National Police Service and Kenya Prisons Service. The team led by former Chief Justice David Maraga sits at the Bomas of Kenya and will start public hearings on Monday, January 30. Others supposed to appear include officials from the Kenya Prisons. The team has also invited comments and submissions from the public by February 17 this year. Those with comments are supposed to send them via email, to police.prisonreforms@interior.go.ke. “Stakeholders and the public who are not able to submit written memoranda are invited to attend public hearings and give their views,” the secretariat of the task force said. The 20-member task force will also divide itself into several teams and tour all 47 counties from February 6 to 17 Equally, the Maraga team has scheduled forums in regions as indicated. “The terms of reference of the task force are to review the human capital management and development policies with a view of examining and reviewing standards and practices in recruitment, deployment, transfers, training, career progression, performance-based and competitive promotions, reward, exit, and post-exit management,” the notice said. President William Ruto established the task force through a gazette notice on December 21, 2022, to identify and recommend legal, policy, administrative, institutional, and operational reforms in the National Police Service and the Kenya Prisons Service for effective service delivery. The team is also expected to review and recommend improving the services' terms and services and other reforms. The Maraga-led task force is also tasked with reviewing and recommending improvement of matters relating to the welfare of officers in all cadres of the NPS and KPS and all other matters incidental to the optimal service delivery of the service. Ruto said the task force will also be charged with recommending the implementation of changes that enhance morale, meritocracy and professionalism. The team has been meeting stakeholders in the sector ahead of the hearings. They have three months for their work. Other members of the team include Carole Kariuki  who is the Vice Chairperson, Moffat Muriithi Kangi, John Ole Moyaki, Ibrahim Jillo Guyo, Richard Kirundi, Elizabeth Mueni, Roseline Odede, Joash Odhiambo Dache, Doreen Muthaura and  Albert Mwenda. Terry Chebet Maina, Hassan Sheikh Mohamed, Capt. (Rtd.) Simiyu Werunga (Dr.), Mutuma Ruteere (Dr.), Anne Ireri, Stephen Kayongo, Jafaar Mohamed, Sammy Chepkwony and Khadija Mire are also in the President’s taskforce. The task force’s joint secretaries include Omwanza Ombati, Joy Mdivo Masinde and Rosemary Kamau.