President William Ruto is set to visit Western and Mt Kenya regions over the weekend as he moves to spread his unity and development agenda in his countrywide tours. The Head of State will land in Kitale, Trans Nzoia county on Saturday for the installation of the new Bishop of Kitale Catholic Church. Fr Henry Juma Odonya will be installed to replace Bishop Maurice Crowley who resigned after leading the dioceses for more than 30 years. Pope Francis appointed Fr Odonya the new Bishop of the diocese in November last year. State House has confirmed the President’s visit. “He is going to Kitale for the consecration of the new Bishop of Kitale Diocese,” Emmanuel Talam, Press Secretary to the Presidential Communication Service, told the Star. The President is expected to speak about his administration’s agenda for the county and the entire region in his address. They include plans to address the challenges maize farmers face as well as development projects in the area. Initially, the President was scheduled to tour several counties in the North Rift and Western. They include Nandi, Trans Nzoia, Elgeyo Marakwet, Bungoma, Kakamega and Busia. However, the same was canceled. “The other engagements were pushed to a later date but on Saturday he will be in Kitale for the church event,” Trans Nzoia Senator Allan Chesang said. On Sunday, the President will be in Kirinyaga, where he will attend an interdenominational prayer service at Kerugoya Stadium. On Friday, overnor Ann Waiguru met members of the clergy from every constituency in Kirinyaga ahead of the service. This is ahead of Interdenominational Thanksgiving Service on Sunday which will be attended by President William Ruto  and Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua.  The service will take place at the Kerugoya Stadium starting 9am He is expected to articulate his plans for the county and the entire region that overwhelmingly voted for him in the August 9, elections. Kirinyaga Senator James Murango said the service will be a thanksgiving prayer following the president’s victory in the polls. “He is coming to church and also to speak about any emerging issues. We have many issues in Agriculture and other areas,” Murango said. The lawmakers, however, criticised the opposition politicians in the region who have been ridiculing the Head of State for visiting the region for ‘prayers and not development.’ Since his election, the President has sustained tours across the country as he launches development projects and push for unity. The events have also been marked by political undertones with pundits saying President Ruto was laying the ground for his re-election. Last weekend, Ruto toured Nyanza, the political bastion of his main opponent, Raila Odinga. He launched projects, met leaders and pushed for unity. “Friday and Saturday I went to visit Nyanza because I want it to be understood in Kenya that Kenyans in their democratic right chose us through the ballot and put our brother in the opposition ultimately so that they get the services,” Ruto said. “But let me declare that there are no citizens in the opposition. All citizens are Kenyans. Those in opposition are leaders because they have a responsibility to do and that job is a constitutional duty. Our in the government I lead is to serve the people." Last Sunday, Ruto also attended a church service in Bomet. Earlier, the President traversed the Coast and Western regions where he ished out development goodies.