Six individuals who have been nominated for positions of chief officers in different departments within the Kirinyaga county government on Wednesday presented themselves for vetting at the county assembly. The six who were appointed by Governor Anne Waiguru were taken to task over their suitability in handling their respective areas of appointments by the relevant assembly departmental committees. The nominees are Joseph Calirus Otieno(Finance and economic planning), Fredlick Fundi Ndambiri (Public works and housing), Maureen Muthoni Mwangi (Environment, Energy, climate change and natural resources). Others are Peter Murimi Njeru(water and Irrigation services), Gacigi Njagi (Administration, special programmes and Liason)and James Karuri Kihia (county liquor licensing committee). Murimi Njeru told the water committee, that if successful, he will help in the formulation of policies that will improve water-related services across the country. This is inclusive of fast-tracking the installation of automated water meters and water bills to reduce cost and labour to both the users and the county’s water supply company. He said the Waiguru-led administration is committed to developing more infrastructures to offer good water services. Njeru told the committee that the county intends to conduct public sensitisation programmes that will see residents harvest rainwater for domestic use and irrigation to curb water shortage and complement water from rivers. He also pledged to be at the forefront in championing the tree-growing initiative which has been rolled out by the national and county governments. “Some parts of our county like Mwea still have water-related challenges and I intend to put in place mechanism that will bring long-term solutions to the problem because I believe water is vital and a basic right to all citizens,” he said. He also told the committee of the county’s plan in putting in place structures that will ensure that the newly constructed Thiba dam does not affect the neighbouring community in the event it causes floods. He said plans are to ensure that the excess water is channelled back to River Thiba to curb human and health-related challenges brought about by floods. He pledged to cultivate a good working relationship between himself, the assembly and other leaders from neighbouring counties to resolve any conflicts that might have arose over river boundaries or any water supply-related service. Maureen Muthoni Mwangi told the Timothy Kariuki environment-led committee that if successful, she will among others oversee the implementation of the recycling of waste products. The former nominated MCA said with a good budget, the county can embark on recycling waste products that would otherwise continue polluting the environment. She said the newly recycled products can be sold and put to different uses. The different committees that vetted the nominees will now retreat to write reports which will eventually be tabled on the floor of the house.