The Opposition now wants the Kenyan Kwanza government led by President William Ruto to keep off public universities. In a statement on Friday, Minority leader Opiyo Wandayi said it was a plot by some government officials to grab the massive land and infrastructure owned by the universities. "Our public universities sit on massive resources particularly land and infrastructure. Someone may be eyeing these resources under the guise of fixing the financial problems facing this institution," he said. His remarks came after Investments, Trade and Industry CS Moses Kuria said there was a need to privatise some public universities in the country. According to Kuria, this would help easy the burden that has seen these institutions get into debts. He said he was in talks with investors to partner with universities and make them better places. Wandayi said the transactional approach being pushed by Kuria on behalf of his bosses has no place in education He added that there are tested ways through which the government can help public universities. "Some Kenya Kwanza leaders are sitting somewhere and asking, why is the University of Nairobi, Kenyatta University or Egerton sitting on so much land? Why can’t I be given those university of Nairobi hostels to run and make money?" he posed. He added that management of public universities must be rid of political interference. The minority leader said the William Ruto-led government must adequately fund universities and appoint good managers on merit, not on the basis of tribe as is the case now. "When we privatize universities just because they are in financial problems, we are telling them that rather than prioritise quality learning and research, they should prioritize profit," Wandayi said. He added, "Privatization has real danger of removing the academic checks and balances that protect standards in universities. It will turn these institutions into companies whose primary obligation is to their shareholders, making them focus on driving down costs and maximizing profits. We don’t want to go there."