Tusker FC head coach Robert Matano wants his players to be at their best fitness-wise as they head to Mbaraki Stadium for a clash against hosts Bandari on Sunday. Matano said the Kenyan Premier League leaders struggled at home in Wednesday's 2-1 victory over the bottom-placed Vihiga Bullets. Tusker looked rusty in the match, despite having come off a six-match-winning streak that saw them top the log and Matano is now concerned. The seasoned gaffer attributed the team's drop in form to the long holiday break, which left them gasping for breath against their inexperienced opponents. "We've just come off the holiday season and most players appear to be struggling to regain match sharpness. To win in football, you must put in a lot of effort and maintain the momentum," Matano stated. "It has always been our tradition to play with purpose but I noticed that we didn't know what to do with the ball against Vihiga. This, I believe, is due to a lack of team training." Despite the pitfalls, Matano has promised to improve their act. "On the plus side, we identified our weak points, which we will address before traveling to Mombasa to face Bandari. We panicked a lot in front of goal and wasted a lot of chances (against Vihiga)," he said. "That must change in our next game. We should reduce unnecessary excitement and anxiety as we prepare to attack," he added. Other matches on Sunday include Posta Rangers hosting Gor Mahia at Thika Stadium. The mailmen are full of confidence after thrashing Bandari 3-1 in Mombasa on Wednesday. Mathare United will be looking for their first win of the season when they take on Sofapaka at Ruaraka Complex. AFC Leopards will look to build on their 1-0 win over City Stars at Nyayo Stadium on Wednesday when they host Bidco at the same venue. High-flying Kariobangi Sharks face Kenya Police at Nairobi's Moi Stadium, Kasarani Annex. The youngsters, who are coached by William Muluya, must be cautious against the law enforcers, who defeated Wazito 4-0 in their last outing. Vihiga Bullets have a date with Nairobi City Stars at Bukhungu Stadium, Kakamega. Second-placed Nzoia Sugar will be seeking to dislodge leaders Tusker when they battle Kakamega Homeboyz at Sudi Stadium, Bungoma. Struggling Wazito will dare Ulinzi Stars at Ulinzi Sports Complex, Nairobi as Talanta settle scores with KCB at Moi Stadium, Kasarani Annex.