At least 1,040 students in Marsabit county are set to benefit from the county scholarship programme launched on Saturday at Moyale Township primary school in Moyale. This is the 5th disbursement since the beginning of the programme. Marsabit Governor Mohamud Ali who initiated the scholarship programme in 2019, with the aim to support needy and bright students in the county disbursed cheques amounting to Sh143 million, making it the largest bursary scheme disbursement in the county. "We are awarding full scholarships to 1,040 students from Marsabit county joining form one. This is the highest number of scholarships awarded in a year since its inauguration in 2019," said Governor Mohamud The plan to increase the number of beneficiaries was occasioned by the current droughts that have left many people to lose their livelihoods. Governor Mohamud's administration in the last five years has disbursed over Sh360 million to fund the education of 2,690 students from disadvantaged families. The county boss thanked the county assembly members for their leadership and commitment to ensuring fair allocation of the bursary. He reiterated that his administration is committed to addressing the challenges facing needy students in the county "I commit to continue supporting needy and bright students in the county to ensure continuity of this program and make education more accessible to those who otherwise face seemingly insurmountable economic barriers," he stated The governor said the scholarship fund will not only help reduce the number of school dropouts but also boost the number of skilled manpower in the county. The county chief said the bursary seeks to support the government's commitment to a 100 percent transition policy to secondary school and noted that thousands of learners opted out of school due to lack of fees. He celebrated scholarship pioneer students who performed well in their last Kcse exams, where 184 scored a university entry grade. " 80 per cent of pioneers beneficiaries have achieved direct entry to university. This is the highest number of students in the county who have ever qualified for direct admission to university in a single year," he said He challenged the continuing students to remain disciplined and focus on their studies for better performance and warned those who are underperforming in his educational programme that they need to improve their performance. "Education will help you further develop your own personal habits of mind and critical thinking skills, the habits of mind and ways of looking at the world will become your equipment for living the rest of your life," he advised He has reiterated his administration's commitment to improving the quality of education in the county, pledging that his government would not relent in the goal of repositioning education in the county. The governor urged members of the parliament to use the NG-CDF to fund the education of students in the county, to ensure that none of them fails to join the secondary school. He urged young people to embrace lifelong education, discipline and hard work to secure a bright future in life, saying with formal education the youth would be able to achieve their legitimate dreams in life. "Education is part of the foundation of all progress and growth both as individual and as a society," he said The chief guest, Education cabinet secretary Ezekiel Machogu has warned secondary school head teachers against flouting the government's fee guidelines. He noted that some headteachers might increase fees at the expense of parents whose majority of them have been affected by devastating droughts. Machogu asked the parents and guardians to report to the relevant authority such teachers. He commended governor Mohamud-led administration on the scholarship programme saying it would complement the National government's efforts of ensuring learners are not denied access to education because of their social-economical background. He urged parents to value the education of their children, saying it was only through education that the young people could make a meaningful contribution to the socio-economic progress of the county. He added that it's high time for parents to take the educational pursuits of their children seriously saying through education communities can make a meaningful contribution to the development of the county and country at large. He asked people in the county to take advantage of the many education funds to scale greater educational heights. The CS said the government is feeding learners in both Arid and Semi-arid areas and those in informal settlements. "The government is aware of the challenges the learners are facing because of droughts. The government is working round the clock to ensure learners get food in the school. Education can not be disrupted due to drought," he said He assured the parents of Grade 7 learners that there will be no payment of school fees and said the government had already released money meant for junior secondary school. "The president has directed the release of funds to facilitate in all public schools. No school should charge any fees for Grade 7 learners," he said The parents, however, have to carter for their children's school uniforms as Grade 7 learners required to wear a different uniform that will differentiate them from primary school pupils. Marsabit deputy Governor Solomon Gubo has encouraged parents to invest heavily in their children through education. " Lay a good foundation for your children by ensuring they get a good education despite the economic challenges. As parents we need to try our best by ensuring our children get the best," he said The 2023 scholarship fund beneficiary David Imoro is a strong and determined student set to join Nyandarua High School. He lost his parents at a tender age. David's challenges replicate what most parents go through on daily basis. With the help of the county scholarship fund, his future now shines brighter than ever before. Wako Wario Halake is a young beneficiary of a county scholarship fund from Saku sub-county. He set to join Kagumo high school after scoring 404 marks in the KCPE exam.