Patrick Aussems will remain AFC Leopards' head coach despite mounting pressure for him to step down, club chairman Dan Shikanda has said. The Belgian gaffer has come under fire in recent weeks following a torrid run that leaves them ninth on the log with 14 points. Leopards have only won two of the nine games they have played so far, with four losses and the same number of draws. Despite the outcome, Shikanda has come to Aussems' defense and lashed out at those calling for his resignation. "Let us draw parallels with Argentina's spectacular comeback during the last World Cup in Qatar. Was the coach fired immediately after they lost to Saudi Arabia in their first match?" Shikanda inquired. “Some demands don't just make sense at all. Aussems is the same coach who led the team to a top-ten finish in the last season at a time we were facing financial constraints and he had the same players.” Shikanda asked the club's fans to be patient, stating that they plan to bolster the squad once the current Fifa transfer ban expires. "One of the reasons we haven't been performing well is that we have had to rely on players promoted from the youth team. Fortunately, the ban will end in July, after which we will be free to sign players who can help us win the championship." Demands to axe Aussems and the rest of the technical bench heightened three weeks ago when the side suffered a humiliating 4-1 defeat at the hands of Bidco United at Nyayo Stadium. Leopards face a herculean task against a revamped Kenya Police on Wednesday at Nyayo Stadium, with fans hoping for nothing less than a victory. Meanwhile, Sofapaka will miss the services of Joseph Waithira and Davis Kasirye when they take on Kakamega Homeboyz on Wednesday at Bukhungu Stadium. The 2009 Kenya Premier League champions announced the duo's departure in a statement late Monday. Waithera joined the 2009 Kenyan Premier League champions on a two-year deal from rivals Wazito in February 2021. On the other hand, Kasirye is leaving after four months at the club, having joined in September last year. In other matches lined up for the day, Nairobi City Stars welcome Wazito to the Ruaraka Grounds in Nairobi. After losing 2-0 to Kenya Police at Nyayo Stadium last weekend, Nzoia Sugar will look to get back to their winning ways when they face Vihiga Bullets at Sudi Stadium, Bungoma. Kariobangi Sharks will enter their match against Bandari at Kasarani Main Stadium high on confidence after defeating Posta Rangers 5-1 in their last match. KCB have a date with Posta Rangers at Moi Stadium Kasarani Annex in Nairobi while Bidco will be playing Mathare United at Utalii Grounds, Nairobi. Gor Mahia will look to extend their impressive run in the competition when they take the battle to the gates of Talanta. Champions Tusker face Ulinzi Stars at Moi Kasarani Annex Stadium, Nairobi.