It was a moment of eased tension and flashback on Friday afternoon when Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua hosted his former party members from Jubilee. The meeting was attended by at least 10 elected and nominated Jubilee party members. They are  David Kiaraho (Ol Kalou) Kanini Kega  (EALA), Sabiba Chege (Nominated), Irene Njoki (Bahati), Zachary Kwenya (Kinangop),  Shadrack Mwiti (South Imenti),Mwenje (Embakasi West), Amos Mwago (Starehe), Dan Karitho (Igembe Central), Muthama (Lamu West) and Lamu Senator Joseph Githuku. After the meeting, Kanini Kega said that Politics should not be kept at heart. "Siasa usiweke kwa ROHO! HE Riggy G the Deputy President Hosted us today and we had a good day discussing development issues.," he said. Kega who is considered as a close ally to retired President Uhuru Kenyatta, was among the biggest critics of Kenya Kwanza during pre-August polls last year. After failing to defend his seat in Kieni, Kega in November last year changed his tune and started rallying Mt Kenya leaders behind DP Gachagua. Kega announced that he will foster the region’s unity behind the DP but within his political formation – Jubilee Party that is led by former President Uhuru Kenyatta. After the meeting on Friday, DP Gachagua said that the Kenya Kwanza government will work with all regardless of their political affiliation "Elections are over, Indeed, H.E. President William Ruto and I have agreed that 2023 is the year of work, and we have to put the interests of the people first to build back our economy.," he said. On March 2, 2o22 Gachagua who was then the Mathira MP, quit the Jubilee party and joined UDA. He said he would defend his seat through the UDA ticket, not knowing that he will later be chosen to deputise Ruto in the August 2022 polls. Gachagua- Jubilee members meeting comes barely 48 hours after the party said that  Opposition leader Raila Odinga's votes were stolen in Mt.kneya. Jubilee Secretary General Jeremiah Kioni said manipulation that was done during the August 9 election happened within the Mt Kenya region. "Most of the manipulation that was done happened within the Mt Kenya region," he said. Kioni said that more information shared by the whistleblower will be brought out by the leaders of the Azimio La Umoja.