The perennial water shortage and hunger situation in Kwale is expected to end following the county's move to rehabilitate key water projects. It is acting in partnership with the National Drought Management Authority. Deputy Governor Chirema Kombo said the county and NDMA have already renovated several water boreholes in the drought-stricken subcounties of Kinango and Lunga-Lunga to alleviate the crisis. Last week, a delegation from NDMA met county officials at the Kwale headquarters to discuss on further areas of partnership. The delegation was led by NDMA Chief Executive Officer Hared Hassan and Kwale NDMA acting coordinator John Maina. Kombo said the rehabilitation is part of the county and national government efforts to ensure sufficient water supply and food security. He said other mega flagship water projects are in the pipeline to curb starvation and address the prolonged drought situation. "We are doing what it takes to ensure residents have clean and safe drinking water throughout the year," he said. Kwale is among the drought-hard-hit counties where more than 200, 000 residents are facing hunger. Many residents in Kinango, Lunga-Lunga and Samburu are depending on government relief food for survival. Last year, the county steering committee chaired by Governor Fatuma Achani reported that many water sources in Kwale had dried up in the drought. She was forced her to appeal for more than Sh100 million to expand dams and repair boreholes. Achani also said some crucial water pans and boreholes had broken down leaving both animals and locals stranded as competition for water intensified. The residents were forced to share water with animals, risking water-borne related diseases because of contamination. Kombo said once the projects are completed, they will serve residents with enough water for domestic and irrigation purposes. He said the projects will relieve residents from the burden of walking long distances in search of food and water. Kombo said among the scheduled water projects are dams, which are expected to boost water supply and agricultural activities to strengthen livelihoods and harness poverty. "The water projects will spur agribusiness for socio-economic empowerment and living standards," he said. Already the county has constructed a number of dams, including are Bekazo, Nyalani, Kizingo, Mwakalang among others. The steady water supply is also aimed at improving service delivery in public hospitals. Previously, some patients in Kwale hospital had complained of water shortage, alleging that people are forced to carry water from home. Those who suffered most were women seeking maternity services and hospitalised patients. However, during the swearing-in ceremony of the county executives, Achani said the situation was being addressed and things should return normal. She said a water boozer was supplying water to ensure health services are not disrupted as the problem was being resolved. Kombo said the county is doing everything in its power to mitigate the effects of drought and save the locals from water scarcity. He said the county is working towards strengthening water pumping and connectivity to benefit all residents. Kombo said the county has initiated repairs and maintenance of water pipelines and boreholes to bring improved water services up to speed. (Edited by V. Graham)