The return of  Joy Luseneka and Sherine Kipkemboi has given Kenya Volleyball Federation women's league defending champions Kenya Prisons a new lifeline ahead of the playoffs later this month. Luseneka, who is a setter, and Kipkemboi, a middle blocker have been away because of family matters. Luseneka, who is an established Malkia Strikers setter, missed out on the team's High-Performance Training in Brazil between June and September 2022. She subsequently missed the World Championships that were co-hosted by Poland and the Netherlands as the Kenya Queens managed a solitary win against perennial rivals Cameroon in the group stage. Coach Josp Baraza revealed that the experienced star setter is in good condition and can only get better. This year's playoffs will be staged at Kasarani Indoor Arena from January 20-22. Prisons, who have won the past four editions of the competition, will once again ruffle feathers with Kenya Pipeline, the Directorate of Criminal Investigation and KCB. "We are happy to welcome Luseneka and Kipkemboi back. It's obvious that any team will miss Luseneka's services because she's a top-quality player who has been consistent." He added: "Her return will uplift the morale of the team considering we've struggled in her specialty, where we have had to rely only on Herma Jepyego. Luseneka has not added weight and looks fitter and ready for duty." The Wardresses lost nine points in the Mombasa leg after giving the coastal tourney a wide berth to finish fourth in the regular season. The team also produced lukewarm performances after missing five first-team players this season. Barasa said the team must rectify their mistakes to stand a chance of successfully defending their title. He noted that their first match against an imperious Kenya Pipeline will be the determinant. "We didn't play badly either in Eldoret and Mosoriot as many people purport but we have had our ups and downs. We however need error-free performance now that all our rivals are on top of their game." "The championship is unpredictable honestly. KCB is the reigning African Club Champions, Pipeline look unstoppable while you cannot write off DCI. We have to approach the competition carefully but I know the girls will rise to the occasion."   