Former presidential Aspirant Ekuru Aukot has said the plan by Kenya Power and lighting company to increase electricity costs by 78 per cent will lead to an increase in unemployment. Aukot took to Twitter on Thursday saying SMEs will also shut down due to the planned increase in electricity costs. "As a matter of fact, SMEs will shut and close shop. I, therefore, see an increase in unemployment," he said. Aukot cast doubt on the possibility of any serious investors coming into the country to create employment for the youth with the intended cost increase. "Which serious industrialist or investors will come to Kenya to create the so-called jobs with a such high cost of electricity?" he asked. Aukot questioned whether the current regime is also in support of the planned cost increase. "So, the price of electricity will go up by 78% in April. That's what Kenya Power Care does. Is it true to also conclude that this is also the position of a "hustler" government? "He posed. Aukot said it does not make sense for the cost of electricity to go up, yet Kenya has a surplus of power. "We also know that in Kenya today, we have surplus power. So, why should the cost of electricity go up? This is not rocket science," Aukot said. The power company is currently reviewing electricity tariffs that will see Kenyans who consume less than 30 units a month dig deeper into their pockets to meet their power needs. Kenya Power is seeking the approval of the energy regulator (Epra) to increase the cost of a unit of power for the usage of fewer than 30 kilowatts(kWh)) per month to Sh28.01 a unit. Kenyans will pay 35.3 per cent more than the current Sh20.70 for every unit of power for those who use 30 kilowatts(kWh)) per month. Those consuming 50 kilowatts a month will pay Sh36.92 a unit from the current Sh20.70, representing a 78.3 per cent jump in electricity costs for households. The lighting company has also reduced the threshold for accessing the monthly power subsidy equivalent to a 24.1 per cent discount from 100-kilowatt hours to the proposed 30 units. This means that households that consume more than 30 units a month will not be entitled to the subsidy they have enjoyed since 2018, making their power bills goes up. These will be the new tariffs if the energy regulatory authority chooses to approve the proposed tariffs by the lighting company.