Isiolo Governor Abdi Hassan has announced that the county will get 350 Kenya Police Reservists to address security challenges. Speaking on Tuesday, the governor said he had successfully lobbied for 350 KPRs from the Interior ministry. "After talks with the CS, 250 KPRs will be deployed in Isiolo North while the remaining 100 will be deployed across Isiolo South," he said. Guyo said Interior CS Kithure Kindiki has pledged to establish a special security unit in Yamicha and construct a police station in Malkagalla and a police post in Alango. “I hope the insecurity menace will soon be behind us to allow us to refocus our energy on other important development agendas," he said. The county boss said the government had accepted his request to set up buffer zones at the borders. Guyo spoke at a baraza in Dadacha Lafe and listened to the challenges raised by residents, including insecurity, water and access to affordable healthcare. On healthcare, the governor directed that all ambulances get serviced. He called for fast-tracking of the current recruitment of healthcare workers, adding that his administration has put into consideration the deployment of medics in Dadacha Lafe. Towards the end of last year, Isiolo county procured drugs from Kemsa that were distributed across health facilities. The consignments, which include pharmaceutical, non-pharmaceutical, renal, theatre and laboratory drugs, were enough for two to three months. Guyo said his administration will be reviving collapsed irrigation schemes like Rapsu, Gafarsa and CEFA in Merti. They will map out new but strategic areas where crop farming can be undertaken. “My administration will be revisiting deserted drought reserves in Yamicha, Chari, Barambate, and others, all to rehabilitate existing water sources as we set out to drill new boreholes for farming and livestock use,” Guyo said. He said the finalisation of the Isiolo abattoir is underway and a service provider is now on board to equip it. The abattoir is likely to be commissioned in May this year, the governor said. “Ours is a journey inspired by the trust and confidence you have continued to place in me and my administration, and as your governor, I promise to work day and night to better your lives,” Guyo said.