Kakamega Governor Fernandes Barasa has told off Senator Boni Khalwale over claims that he linked him to President William Ruto. Barasa said he has unrestricted access to the President as a county chief and does not require to be linked to the him through intermediaries. “I want to respond to Khalwale and tell him to stop brokerage. I speak to the President anytime I want. He is the President of the Republic of Kenya, and I am the president for the county government of Kakamega. We speak as presidents,” he said. “Stop misleading people that you took me to State House. I understand that as counties we must collaborate with the national government to realise the much needed development,” he added. The governor was addressing mourners during the burial service for Arnold Rapando at Khabondi village in Mumias East constituency on Wednesday. Mumias East MP Peter Salasya and Roots Party leader George Wajackoyah also attended the funeral. While attending a thanksgiving service for Hadija Nganyi for being appointed Commissions of Revenue Allocation in Mumias East subcounty on Sunday, Khalwale said that he had managed to link Barasa to the President. “I took Barasa to Ruto because I wanted the county to benefit from both the devolved funds and that that remain with the national government. I knew that Barasa will not do anything by waiting for Raila Odinga,” he said. The governor asked elected leaders in the county to concentrate on discharging their mandate and stop discussing him in night meetings. “If you were elected as a woman representative or senator, do your work and leave others to do theirs. Some people pretend to be with me during the day, but at night they hold meetings, and say I am a one-term governor,” he said, making reference to Khalwale and woman MP Elsie Muhanda. Barasa told Khalwale to stop lying to residents that he brings money to Kakamega, adding everyone knows that money for counties comes from the senate. “As the chairman of the Council of Governors, finance and economic affairs, we are negotiating with the commission for revenue allocation for the money that is supposed to go to counties for the next five years,” he said. The county chief announced the return of the Kazi Mtaani initiative starting March to help address unemployment among youths. He said that each of the 60 wards in the constituency build be allocated 50 slots for youth and women. “The beneficiaries will serve on a one-year contract and not three months as has been the case before,” he said.  (edited by Amol Awuor)