Former Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi has made his first public appearance since losing the August 9 elections. The former county boss made the appearance at a public function in Meru where he pledged to support the Meru county government under Governor Kawira Mwangaza. "Na mi nasupport serikali, wale mmechagua tuko na wao and I'm there kama mzee. Kutoa mawaidha and I'm ready to give whatever support from where I'm," Kiraitu said. Kiraitu failed to retain his seat for the second term after he was beaten by the current Governor Kawira Mwangaza at the polls. Mwangaza, who vied on an Independent ticket, floored Kiraitu and Senator Mithika Linturi, ending their dominance of Meru politics. Kiraitu vied for the seat on his Devolution Empowerment Party ticket, popularly known as MBUS. The party joined Azimio la Umoja One Kenya on March 8, 2022, and said it would back ODM leader Raila Odinga for his presidential bid. Kiraitu said the party made the move after analysing what the people were saying about their future. "We have done the research, talked to opponents and listened to confidential reports. I can confidently tell you that the fifth president of the Republic of Kenya is no other than Raila Odinga," Murungi said. It was widely believed that Kiraitu would easily defend his seat after then Agriculture CS Peter Munya backed out of the gubernatorial race. Munya said on February 9 that he had chosen to retain his position in the Cabinet to work with former President Uhuru Kenyatta till the end of his term. But Kawira beat Kiraitu by garnering 209,148 votes, against her closest competitor Mithika Linturi of UDA who polled 183, 859 votes. Kiraitu finished third with 110, 814 votes. On September 2, Kiraitu ditched Azimio and joined President William Ruto’s Kenya Kwanza Alliance. While being received at Ruto's Karen residence, Kiraitu said that both his Devolution Empowerment Party (DEP) and Kenya Kwanza have the same ideologies. He said his party would stand with Ruto regardless of the outcome of the Presidential election petition at the Supreme Court.