The government will embark on extensive restructuring of the NHIF and Kemsa as part of major reforms in the sector, Health CS Susan Wafula has said. She said the reforms were part of plans to achieve Universal Health Care. The CS said in less than three years, the NHIF will be in a position to cover more than 25 million Kenyans. She said Kenyans would soon start enjoying "healthcare with a difference". Wafula admitted that NHIF was facing major challenges but the changes at the institution had started with governance reforms following the appointment of Michael Kamau as the chairman of its board. “We will now sit down with him and chart the way forward because this government is committed to delivering good healthcare for Kenyans,” she said. Wafula said NHIF has about one million indigents but the government  plans to increase the number to more than five million households, covering more than 25 million people. The CS was speaking during a tour at Moi Referral Hospital in Eldoret. She was with hospital CEO Dr Wilson Aruasa, Uasin Gishu Governor Jonathan Bii and speaker of the Uasin Gishu assembly Phillip Muigei. The CS also announced that the Linda Mama programme would remain in place, contrary to claims that it had been scrapped. “Linda Mama is still with us and all pregnant mothers will be covered through the programme,” she said. Wafula also announced that the government would deploy 800 intern doctors as from next week. “We are posting the interns as part of our plans to improve healthcare in the country,” she said. The CS said the Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists' Union (KMPDU) had threatened to strike over the welfare of doctors but her ministry was more interested in delivering quality healthcare and not controversies. She said she was in the region to restart the process of putting up a second major hospital at Kiplombe in Eldoret, estimated to cost more than Sh200 million. The government has set aside 200 acres for the project, which was suspended during retired President Uhuru Kenyatta’s regime. The CS praised the role played by the Moi Referral Hospital in serving Kenyans from 22 counties in the western part of the country along with neighbouring countries. She said the hospital recently did a kidney transplant on a patient from Burundi, signifying its importance in the region. Wafula said it is the only public institution that has signed CBA agreements with all the unions representing about 3,000 workers. “We call upon other hospitals and institutions to come and benchmark with MTRH so they understand what they are doing well to ensure success in service delivery,” she said.