The Kenya Human Rights Commission Chairperson Roseline Odede has condemned a move by Holy Ghost Coptic Church in Kisumu to detain members of the public who are alleged to be mentally ill. Odede spoke on Thursday saying the violations occurring at Holy Coptic Church have been reported severally yet no concrete action has been taken by the government to address this matter. It is also alleged that the detained persons are being chained and put through despicable conditions with allegations of being prayed for to get healed. "The Commission condemns in the strongest terms possible the continued gross violations and abuses of the rights of those detained by the Church under the guise of faith healing or other reasons," Odede said. Odede said that this state of affairs is a reflection of the bigger reality that persons with disabilities particularly those with mental health conditions continue to experience. The commission said the move was a violation of the Constitution under the Prevention of Torture Act 2017 and the rights to freedom and security of the person, freedom of movement and association, and right to health and protection of the vulnerable. Odede reminded Kenyans that in 2018 they had received a similar complaint relating to a minor with mental illness detained at the Holy Ghost Coptic Church. The commission undertook investigations and established that indeed there were persons being held in the church and living under inhuman and deplorable conditions. "Investigations further established that the Church has no medical facility or personnel to handle patients with mental illness or disabilities," Odede said. Odede called upon the DPP Noordin Haji and the National Police Service to exercise their legal powers and ensure criminal investigations and prosecutions are taken against any person found culpable for violating the rights of persons who have been detained by the Church. The commission also invited the Attorney General to audit the church and its operation and take appropriate action. Oded said that institutions such as those involved in faith healing as certain institutions not only violate the rights of persons with mental illness but also exacerbate the belief that mental illness is a result of evil spirits or sin hence continued discrimination and failure to seek appropriate medical attention. Odede said it was unfortunate that the violations occurring at Holy Coptic Church have been reported severally with no concrete action. She condemned the continued gross violations and abuses of the rights of those detained by the church under the guise of faith healing or other reasons. The commission expresses deep concern that this state of affairs is a reflection of the bigger reality that persons with disabilities, particularly those with mental health conditions or psychosocial and intellectual disabilities continue to experience. "This is a testimony that there exist widespread human rights violations, indignity, discrimination, stigma and social exclusion across all spaces, such as in families, religious circles and indeed in other public and private spheres," she said. Already the Kisumu county government has instituted a legal action against the church, its directors and Father John Pesa. The case will come up on January 27, 2023.