Revenue collectors in Kakamega County must work towards realizing the county’s annual Sh5 Billion target. Speaking when he opened the Kakamega County Revenue Agency-KCRA semi-annual conference on Wednesday, Governor Fernandes Barara urged all officials in revenue collection to focus on achieving the said target for the financial year 2022/23. Barasa stressed the need to focus on the County's long-term objective of realizing Sh5 billion annually as reviewed by the Commission on Revenue Allocation. Each department under the county revenue collection agency is expected to raise at least Sh2 billion annually. Barasa urged all Departments with delegated revenue collection responsibilities to meet set targets and conform to the reporting standards as guided by KCRA. The County Health Department for instance was directed to disclose all their revenue accounts for immediate reconciliation by the Agency. “It will be prudent that all offices work towards ensuring that we meet our target of Sh5 billion in collected revenues every year because we have the ability and the resources," he said. The County boss directed revenue officers to embrace the new mantra of culture change which he said involves voluntary tax compliance, personal responsibility and accountability for individual actions despite the Agency fulfilling its mandate on full automation. Last week, the county entered into a contract with Sense Networks Limited to design, install, implement, commission and maintain a revenue collection and management platform. The Governor noted that the new revenue collection system is already being actualized by the service provider and is aimed at increasing efficiency and effectiveness in its own source revenue mobilization. The conference aims at acquainting the new Executive Members on the job mandates of KCRA as well as benefits from new ideas brought in by partners and other participants. Chief Revenue Administrator Aggrey Musindalo reiterated the commitment of the Agency staff to achieving their individual targets and called for support from across the County Departments towards achieving the same.