Most times you will find yourself in a misunderstanding with people on how they behave. Have you ever been annoyed by how a friend or a colleague is too loud or often quiet? According to a publication by Forbes, people are inherently and genetically different. "When we truly understand the people around us, we will become successful entrepreneurs, dedicated employees and friendlier colleagues," the statement read. "It’s when we try to make people think like we think and act like we act, that we end up firing employees, quitting jobs (and probably getting divorced)." Emotional intelligence coach Mucha Mlingo describes personalities as based on a group of traits. She said personality traits are grouped into four types and are named after different psychological modules people use. Mlingo said type A personalities are goal-oriented and focused on their work while type B are relationship-oriented and about people. "Type C people are task-oriented and are introverted and type D is detailed oriented and approaches things to the minute," she said. Mlingo said that because personalities are derived from social behaviors people refer to them using many other terms. She said that other names that refer for personality types are sanguine,  melancholic, choleric, and phlegmatic. According to betterhelp publication people with sanguine personality are people-oriented with outgoing and extroverted traits while phlegmatic personality people are service-oriented with introverted personality traits. The publication said that those with melancholy personality people are detail and quality-oriented and choleric personality people are results-drive hence they exhibit a positive demeanor. "It is really based on your personality traits. This then formed together to give a personality type," Mlingo said. Mlingo added that it is rare to find someone who is fully one type because there is often a larger portion of one personality. She said that personality traits are people's analysis that usually changes. However, she said that personality types are derived from people's behaviors which is a social science that is not clear. Knowing and understanding personality types is important because one is able to understand themselves and what communication styles are most effective for them.