Everton manager Frank Lampard says he “absolutely” does not fear being sacked after his side were beaten by West Ham in the Premier League. The Toffees are without a win in the top flight since October and are stuck in a relegation battle in 19th place. Everton’s poor form, consisting of six defeats and two draws, is Lampard’s longest winless run as a manager in league competition. “I don’t get that far down the line to fear,” he told BBC Radio 5 Live. When asked by Sky Sports if it was time Lampard was sacked, Everton owner Farhad Moshiri - who was at London Stadium to watch his team in action for the first time in 14 months - replied: “I can’t comment. It’s not my decision.” During Everton’s poor run of league form over the past three months, the club has also been knocked out of both the Carabao Cup and the FA Cup at the third-round stage. Jarrod Bowen scored two goals in the first half to hand former Toffees boss David Moyes a much-needed win and heap more misery on under-fire Lampard. The Blues manager added: “I absolutely don’t fear [being sacked], I’m proud to do the job. I just do my job. I get up every day and think how we can get a bit better — it’s as simple as that.” Lampard conceded after the defeat the club are in “tough times” and said he knew the task at Goodison Park would be considerable when he took over a year ago because the team were already struggling. Everton’s last victory in all competitions was a 3-0 Premier League win against Crystal Palace in October “We had a big fight and stayed in the league [last season],” he told Match of the Day. “We lost Richarlison and now have tried to build around that, so it is normal we are fighting again when other clubs are trying to move on. “History moves on and nothing gives you the right to be in their league. If you don’t move you will hit tough times. We are in tough times and everyone has to try to move forward. “It is impossible for me to jump into the future. Last season we were five points shy of safety with five or six games to go, but as a club we have to move together. “I cannot complain about the spirit of the players and how they approached the game. They may have passed it slow but we didn’t find it in the final third.” Match of the Day pundit Jermaine Jenas, the former Tottenham and England midfielder, said: “I feel a bit sorry for him [Lampard]. He’s probably conflicted as to whether he sits tight and tries to keep clean sheets, because he’s got no goalscorer in the team — so what chance has he got?” Asked about Moshiri’s comments on Lampard’s future, Jenas added: “If he [Moshiri] isn’t making the decisions, then who is? He’s definitely passing the buck. “He obviously felt that his presence at the game was going to have some form of impact. I think it sums up the disconnect of the club and what is actually happening there and why there is so much upheaval and frustration within the fanbase.”