Nairobi Gymkhana 'A' believe they have what it takes to give Kanbis 'A' a decent in the highlight counter as Nairobi Provincial Cricket Association (NPCA) T20 League start at Eastleigh High School grounds this Sunday. Gymkhana skipper Harshvardhan Patel reckons that his teammates are well conditioned following the festive break and pre-season comeback. "Well, obviously we know that they're a very strong side, fresh from victory in the just concluded NPCA 50 overs League and will be a great challenge for us. However, I do believe we have the right team balance for the shorter version of the game to push them to their limits. We've managed to get results against them in the past and will be looking to be positive from the onset as well on this occasion." Harshvardhan also believes each player in his squad contributes something unique and different towards the balance of the squad. Gymkhana will peg their hopes on the likes of Lucas Oluoch, former skipper Kavi Dosaja and Aarnav Patel among other stalwarts in the lineup. "Oluoch has incredible ability not only as a bowler but as a power hitting batsman. Kavi, on the other hand, carried on his form over from the 50 over league," said Harshvardhan. "He's capable of setting a terrific platform for the remaining batters to come in and put up a desirable total. Aarnav is one of our key youngsters, having made an impact in past seasons, he will be leading the spin attack."But Harshvardhan has cautioned his teammates that Kanbis cannot be taken lightly being the home team. "Honestly, we know Kanbis have a very attacking brand of cricket and we're not really thinking too much about them. But as long as we stick to the basics and execute our plans, we'll be able to compete with any side in this T20 season." The start of the NPCA T20 league will nevertheless bowl off minus the dreaded Stray Lions, who have a bye into the second match-week.In another Super Division match, 50 over League runners-up Ruaraka 'A' will take on Sir Ali 'A' at their backyard from 2pm. And in another Super Division fixture, Swami's have a date with Cutchi Leva at their Jaffrey’s home ground whilst Sikh Union hosts Obuya Academy. Action galore is guaranteed this weekend with the second and third tier divisions also sure to treat spectators to some exhilarating displays of cricket artistry. Kongonis 'B' will lock horns with the CK Amazon -Ladies team at Nairobi Club from 2pm. GI Unicorns 'B' is the other boys team lined up against the ladies. They play the CK Duchesses-Ladies at their Goan Institute home turf at 9.30am. Goan Institute grounds now has a pavilion where spectators can savor proceedings from the comfort zone of their seats. Division 1 has four T20 matches on the cards this weekend. Prior to the much anticipated Super Division match pitting Kanbis against Gymkhana, their 'B' teams will take to the crease at Eastleigh grounds from 9.30am. Swamibapa 'B' will take on Cutchi Leva 'B' side at Jamhuri High School from 9:30am while Sikh Union 'B' will entertain Ngara Sports Club at Sikh Union from 9:30am. Wolves 'A' will take on Kongonis A at Nairobi Club from 9.30am in another division one duel. Fixtures for weekend are as follows:-SUPER DIVISION Kanbis A vs Nairobi Gymkhana A (Eastleigh-2:00pm)Ruaraka A vs Sir Ali A (Ruaraka SC-2:00pm)Swamibapa A vs SCLPS A (Jaffrey’s-2:00pm)Sikh Union A vs Obuya Academy A (Sikh Union A -2:00pm) Stray Lions-BYE DIVISION 1 Kanbis B vs Nairobi Gymkhana B (Eastleigh-9.30am)Swamibapa B vs SCLPS B (Jamhuri -9.30am) Sikh Union B vs Ngara SC (Sikh Union-9. 30am)Wolves A vs Kongonis A (Nairobi Club-9.30am) DIVISION 2 Group A Mario Tours vs Nakuru -BYE Kanbis Development vs Ngara SC B (Ngara -930am) Group B Nairobi Jaffrey’s vs Medics CC (Jaffrey’s-9.30am) Kongonis B vs CK Amazon -Ladies (Nairobi Club -2pm) Group C GI Unicoms B vs CK Duchesses-Ladies (Goan Institute-9.30am) Swamibapa Development vs An-nadil Jamaly (Jamhuri-2pm)