Machakos Governor Wavinya Ndeti has reveled that she inherited a dilapidated county. This as she prided in accomplishing a number of pledges she promised in her first 100 days. Speaking during an interview with Citizen TV on Tuesday, Wavinya revealed that she inherited a county that was in a mess. "We still have a problem in our hospitals, I have spent more than Sh120 million to purchase drugs," she said. Wavinya added that when the national government piloted healthcare in Machakos, it's difficult to make people pay for the services. "People stopped paying, they want free drugs and it's difficult to sustain healthcare that way," she added. Wavinya revealed that she has overseen the distribution of relief food, among others. "I distributed donations of food to vulnerable families, it's tough, there are no rains, and we have given fertilizers in 40 wards," Wavinya said. The governor disclosed that she has also given out tractors to open up roads in the interior areas. Wavinya further revealed that she inherited a county with debts drooling to more than Sh3bn. This made the management implement a task force to audit pending bills. "We have biometrics, I called all staff and asked them to show their face and thumb," she said. Shockingly more than 550 county staff did not show up. Previously, Wavinya revealed that some of the staff have been earning salaries and allowances illegally. She cited five cases of employment of underage persons among the anomalies used as strategies to siphon public funds. "Under 18 children being paid salaries here," Wavinya said while presiding over the swearing-in ceremony of various task forces at her office on October 26. The governor disclosed that reports from the ministries of Public Service, Gender, Senior Citizens Affairs, Special Programmes and State Department for Public Service had revealed that there were 36 cases of shared bank accounts. She added that there were also 14 cases of officers with the same national IDs but different tax PINs being paid by the Machakos county government. There were also two cases of officers with same IDs but different payroll numbers and 28 cases of officers with same payroll numbers but different ID numbers. Wavinya added that there were 14 cases of officers with the same payroll numbers but different tax PINs. The employees were being paid by the county government. She said there were eight other cases of doubtful arrears payments.