President William Ruto made a joke out of the support he received from the Nyanza region in the presidential race in which he beat his closest rival Raila Odinga. Speaking in Homa Bay on Friday, Ruto, in jest, said he camped in the county during the campaign period asking for votes ahead of the August 9 polls but the region's electorate gave him just one per cent of the votes. "In my region and in DP Rigathi Gachagua's region, Agwambo got 28 and 25 per cent of the votes respectively. You gave me only one per cent," Ruto said amid laughter. "And I had warned you that if you continue discriminating me, I will report you to God," he added. Ruto nonetheless assured Nyanza residents that the Kenya Kwanza government is focused on ensuring the region receives developmental support. He spoke after commissioning the Homa Bay Municipal Market and the  Affordable Housing project and touring the Pier Fish Market in Homa Bay Town. Ruto beat Raila at the polls by garnering 7.1 million votes against Raila's 6.9 million. His two-day tour of the Nyanza region, traditionally an opposition stronghold, is the second since he took office on September 13, 2022. It is seen as Ruto's tactful strategy to woo the Nyanza region from Raila's grip who has enjoyed decades of unwavering support from the electorate. Already, Raila's trusted lieutenants, including top ODM leaders have agreed to work with the president. On Friday, the likes of nominated MP John Mbadi, Governor Gladys Wanga and Suba North MP Millie Odhiambo were on call to receive the President in Homa Bay. This was in grim contrast to the events of two months ago during Ruto's first visit to Nyanza for a church service where he was snubbed by all elected leaders. The changing dynamics could deal a big blow to Raila who has insisted on mounting major resistance against the Ruto administration. However, some sources say the new strategy has the blessing of the ODM boss with a possible Ruto-Raila truce on the cards. Ruto and Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua may have lent credence to this claim going by their 'diplomatic' speeches devoid of abrasive undertones that dominated their remarks at the height of their antagonism with Raila. During his two-day tour, Ruto will roll out several development projects, including an affordable housing project in Homa Bay. The head state is on Saturday expected to visit Kisumu and Siaya counties on a similar mission.