The Directorate of Criminal Investigation has now opened investigations into alleged fake forms 34B, which have been circulating online. In a letter seen by the Star, addressed to IEBC CEO Marjan Hussein, DCI boss Mohamed Amin said the investigations agency had received complaints of the alleged fake forms. “The Directorate has received numerous correspondences and complaints relating to information circulating across diverse online which is attributed to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. Our attention has also been drawn to various documents alleged to be the “official” election results of the Presidential elections held on 9th August 2022,” the letter reads. “For purposes of lawful processing of the complaints referred above in line with our mandate, we hereby request that you furnish us with the certified copies of forms 34B that were used to tally, verify and declare the results of the presidential elections of 9th August 2022." Amin said the complainants whom he did not reveal insist that there are various manipulations in the documents. He added that the forms alleged to have come from the electoral commission have inconsistencies. “The Directorate is investigating the validity and authenticity of the documents in question, in addition to whether offences relating to forgery and falsification of documents have been committed under Sections 345-348 of the Penal Code. Further, the Directorate will undertake investigations in relation to provisions of sections 22 and 23 of the Computer Misuse and Cybercrimes Act, 2018,” the DCI said. The probe comes a few days after the Opposition led by former Prime Minister Raila Odinga claimed that they have official presidential results. They claimed that a whistleblower who works for the IEBC had provided them with evidence that Raila won the election with about 2.2 million votes but was rigged out. The dossier claimed Raila garnered 8,170,355 votes or 57.53 per cent of votes cast against President William Ruto's 5,915,973 votes (41.66 per cent of votes cast).