Whenever there are discussions about personal hygiene, the question of whether people should shave their pubic hair usually comes up. Almost always, there will be questions as to whether there are any health benefits from the practice or if it could actually be harmful. Shaving or trimming pubic hair has become common among both sexes, but it is more prevalent among women. Most people will shave pubic hair because their sex partners want them to or they feel cleaner that way. However, medical studies have shown that shaving your pubic hair might not be such a good thing. Hair protects the pubic area from dirt and pathogens that are in the environment, and it is believed that humans evolved to protect the region. The sebum the hair follicle produces helps to protect the pubic region. Researchers say pubic hair was put there to protect the genitalia from friction and infection. In removing their pubic hair, someone will get cuts or ingrown hairs, and some will develop inflammation of the hair follicles or hyperpigmentation. With this, there is a possibility of skin infections and perhaps an increased risk of catching herpes and other sexually transmitted diseases. Jen Gunter, a gynaecologist, advised women against shaving their pubic hair. In an interview with the BBC, Gunter noted that hygiene is the most common reason women shave their pubic hair. She warned that shaving pubic hair causes “microscopic trauma to the skin.” “Pubic hair has a function, it is probably a mechanical barrier and protection for the skin,” she said. There are also arguments that pubic hair makes sex better. Although it is agreed that a shaved pubic area is attractive to the eye, many believe it does not make sex better. Some scientists believe that pubic hair is involved in the release of pheromones-chemicals that trigger sexual arousal. The chemicals are thought to get trapped in pubic hair when glands release secretion on the skin. This, they say, produces a scent that varies from person to person. Some studies suggest women are attracted to pheromones that differ significantly from theirs. There are those who believe removing pubic hair protects them against body lice, tiny insects that live on coarse human hair. If one has an infection, whether yeast or bacterial shaving down there should not be an option. Shaving can spread the infection, according to research. For those who wear a pad during periods, they would not want to shave down there. Newly shaved skin is prone to irritation, and constantly using the pad causes friction of the skin. Shaving also causes darkness in the area. But if you must shave, one is advised to disinfect the shaving stick, wash the pubic area first and make sure the area is wet. One also has to make sure they do not cut themselves. You are also advised to moisturize after you are done and avoid wearing tight clothes.