Former Roots Party presidential running mate Justina Wamae has told Kenyans to stop asking her for money and job connections. Wamae said she is equally a hustler and needs a job in the Kenya Kwanza government. "Many Kenyans always call me to give them jobs or money, others ask me for job connections for their children and relatives," Wamae said on Wednesday. "They expect and hope that I have so much I can do for them. I manage the situation by telling them the truth. I can't help you with money or a job, I'm equally a hustler and in need of a job too." She said she is not in a position to influence a job. "Mimi ni yule yule hustler wa hapa chini," Wamae said. This loosely translates to," I'm a low-level hustler." Wamae is back to her business of excavations and supplies of construction materials. She said many Kenyans ask her why she hasn't been given a job by President William Ruto's administration. "They ask me whether government jobs are issued based on competency or loyalty. Is the issue competency verses loyalty or loyalty verses competency," Wamae said. She also said the government should focus on industrialisation so as to create more employment opportunities. Wamae said TVETs shouldn't offer business courses since there are many Bachelor of Commerce graduates, yet Kenya lacks adequate tertiary or middle level workers such as plumbers, masons, electricians, carpenters and welders. She said the government should also make agriculture productive through subsidies on farm inputs. "The average age of a farmer is 65 years. The government should make agriculture productive. Fertiliser is still Sh6,400 and getting the GoK one is hectic since one needs a note from agricultural officers, where are they?" Wamae said. "The bureaucracy is killing agriculture employment opportunities, hence why many people are asking me for jobs and money." She said having garnered 61,969 votes in 2022 general election as Roots Party, 0.44 per cent of the total votes casted then, she learnt her lessons in politics. "I don't have money, but a vision. I will still be on the ballot in 2027. I have no regrets, but mine are lessons," Wamae said. She contested for the Mavoko parliamentary seat in 2017 but never got to the ballot. Wamae lost the Jubilee party ticket to the deceased Kalembe Ndile.