Former Mukurweini MP Kabando wa Kabando has urged the Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Alliance to shift its focus to government oversight. On Saturday, he said that the coalition led by Raila should leave August 2022 elections politics behind and set its eyes on keeping President Ruto's administration on its toes. Kabando noted that as much as it's the bitter truth, Ruto is now the President and Azimio should accept. "Agonised whether to say this. Caution said, "Don't do it." Conscience tells me, "Do it." UDA regime needs very strong oversight but no, we Azimio lost it. The bitter truth is that Raila and confidants couldn't take it as red flags were raised. Ruto is now president," he said in his twitter account. Kabando highlighted that he has the utmost respect for Raila and his August 2022 presidential running mate Martha Karua, He urged the coalition not to get sidetracked and continue fighting for the agenda of Kenyans. The former MP said  Raila should lead the coalition in addressing issues such as Kenya's high cost of living instead of dwelling on the past. "I've highest regard for Raila Odinga, a patriot. My party & leader @narckenya @MarthaKarua, whose integrity remains beyond reproach. I wouldn't want us to misappropriate the obligation to keep Ruto's govt on its toes. Let's talk and mobilize on public interest issues, not just #2022," Kabando said. His remarks comes a few days after the Azimio brigade yet again promised to "unearth" what it terms as the filth that befell the August 9 polls which Ruto won. In a statement on Thursday, the coalition leadership said their dossier will build on the 'evidence' released by IEBC whistleblowers. "The data released by the whistleblowers is a bombshell that compels every Kenyan of goodwill to ask themselves if indeed we still have a democracy," the leaders said. The statement was signed by Martha Karua, Kalonzo Musyoka, Wycliffe Oparanya, Jeremiah Kioni, Junet Mohammed, Robert Mbui and Makau Mutua. The Azimio leader Raila Odinga is away on a week-long tour of South Africa which started Friday last week.