Turkana County Pending Bills Review Committee has reduced the pending bills from Sh7.2 billion to Sh2.1 billion. The Committee has submitted its report to Turkana Governor Jeremiah Lomorukai for adoption by the County Executive Committee following the conclusion of its task. The committee report reviewed the pending bills worth Sh7.2 billion and revealed that only Sh2.1 billion were eligible bills for payment. Lomorukai said he was happy and impressed with the report and asked that the process of payment of the eligible bills begin immediately. "My expectations from the review have been met and we will be moving to implement the report and take note of the recommendations made on the management of the County Government’s financial system. I wish to thank the Chair of the committee for an excellent job," he said. The committee's Chairperson Fredrick Riaga made a presentation of the report to the County Executive Committee during a meeting of the cabinet held in Kakuma's Cairo Hotel. He said other recommendations contained in the report include instituting a functional records management system, establishing an Electronic Document Management System, enforcing anti-corruption rules, and committing all funds through IFMIS. “The committee has also recommended that the County Treasury establishes a functional records management system supported by the County ICT Department championing for the establishment of an Electronic Document Management System (EDMS),” he said. He recommended emphasis on compliance with the PFM Act and Public Procurement and Asset Disposal Act (PPADA), 2015 and Regulations of 2020 on support documents. He said other measures include physical verification of the existence of works or supply of goods and services before payments, and the creation of a Contract Implementation Team (CIT). Others are the establishment of a County Public Finance Management Standing Committee, the establishment of a Project Management Database System (PMDS), and the proper classification of suppliers and contractors during pre-qualification. Last year in June, Turkana contractors and suppliers protested demanding payment by end of the 2022 year. They tried to storm former Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok's hotel meeting in Lodwar to demand payment of pending bills before the end of the financial year The demonstration was peaceful at first. Contractors and suppliers marched to the governor's office where they were addressed.