The Kirinyaga county executive and assembly have pledged to forge a harmonious working relationship to realise development. The two arms of the county government led by Governor Anne Waiguru and Speaker Muteti Murimi agreed to put the interests of the residents ahead of any other agenda to ensure election pledges are fulfilled. They spoke during the county executive induction in Nanyuki, Laikipia county. The induction brought together CECs and chief officers to set performance targets and sign performance contracts. The contracts detail timelines for implementation of various development programmes and projects to be evaluated every three months. Governor Waiguru said the induction forum was aimed at enabling the senior officials in her administration to come up with goals and performance targets for service delivery. “The county executive has been here from Monday and we are happy to be joined by the county assembly so that we can all agree on what we want delivered to our Kirinyaga people,” the governor said. She said that performance contracts are very important since they hold each of the officers accountable for realisation of their department’s strategic objectives and, at the same time, allow for monitoring the progress of implementation of various targets. The governor said that the involvement of the assembly in target setting will enable it to play its oversight roles better and hold the executive accountable for what they have set to deliver. She urged the CECs and chief officers to dedicate extra hours to ensure that the set standards are realised. "The expectations of the constituents are high. We therefore need to dedicate ourselves to public service to uplift the living standards of Kirinyaga people," she said. The speaker said that the assembly has so far been very supportive of the executive and assured the governor of a harmonious working relationship between the two arms of government. “The two arms of the county government are not in competition but are meant to complement each other to make Kirinyaga shine. Kirinyaga is not an ordinary county since Governor Waiguru has set a very high bar as far as development agenda is concerned,” Muteti said. He said that even though the assembly was on recess, they had to make time to discuss with the executive how to move forward the county’s development agenda. Muteti affirmed the county assembly’s commitment to addressing any issues that could bring disharmony between the two arms of government. Majority leader Daniel Kibinga said the performance targets will help the assembly in evaluating the performance of the executive and hold the respective officers accountable. Edited by Henry Makori