Three children have been burnt to death in a suspected arson in Kangundo, Machakos county. Kangundo subcounty police commander Zachariah Bitok said the trio died on the spot after their house was allegedly torched by relatives over land dispute on Tuesday night. The incident occurred at Kawethei village in Kakuyuni division. Bitok said the minors got burnt beyond recognition after their family members escaped to safety leaving them behind while asleep. "As we speak, we lost three kids, two females and a male. The eldest was aged eight while the others, six and four, " Bitok told reporters at the scene on Wednesday. He said the bodies were moved to Kangundo Level 4 hospital mortuary awaiting autopsy. "Officers from Kawethei police post received information to the effect that there was an attack in the homestead of Richard Musyoki Mulili. Officers were mobilised from Kakuyuni and rushed to the scene," Bitok said. He said by the time the officers were headed to the scene, they heard reports that there were people stoning the homestead. "But later on, it turned out that there were invaders who had set ablaze the homestead and its occupants disappeared into the bushes to hide. But, three children who were sleeping in the houses, got burnt beyond recognition," Bitok said. The police boss the three bodies were discovered on Wednesday morning. "We understand that there was a land dispute that has been going on for some time. There were groups of people that were before Kakuyuni assistant county commissioner yesterday and they were referred to the court before the incident happened at night," Bitok said. No suspect had been arrested in connection to the incident by press time. Bitok said they were piecing up information together before making arrests. "We are trying to piece up all loose ends to find out what happened. Officers are on the ground combing the crime scene," Bitok said. Kakuyuni assistant county commissioner Joyce Ochieng' said they were saddened by the death of the three children. "What has happened today is unfortunate. This revolves around family feuds that have taken decades to be resolved," Ochieng' said. "This family was in my office yesterday and we tried to solve this issue amicably. I could bare witness that they had a long-standing dispute from the past decades." The administrator said the matters surrounding the dispute was purely inheritance. "As we all know we have traditionally married wives in the Akamba tradition of 'iweto,' so, this family had an only child and they had to get another wife to bear children for them," she said. "It's a case of disinheritance where a son is trying to disinherit the wife brought to the family by the mother but she claims that she has been with family for over six decades so she has a right to inherit the deceased's property. "They couldn't resolve this, we had to refer them to the courts yesterday. I think one of the parties was dissatisfied leading to this incident."