Fresh from sitting their Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education exams, Dennis Kipruto and Dennis Ruto have confirmed participation in the second edition of the Sirikwa Classic Cross Country Tour next month. The 18-year-olds, who are the beneficiaries of the Athletics Kenya training camp, are set to compete in the Under-20 category during the event previously known as Agnes Tirop Memorial Cross country Championships. The World Cross Country Gold Tour is set for February 4 at the Lobo Village in Kapseret, Uasin Gishu county. Kipruto, who sat for his KCSE last year at the Olimwarei Secondary School, said training at the Kapkoimur Athletics Camp in Nandi has helped him prepare for the Sirikwa race. “This will be a big race for me after missing an opportunity to represent the country at the World Cross Country Championships. Now that we are running at home, it will be an advantage for me,” said Kipruto. He said he will focus on training to secure a top position at the race as well as other races ahead of him as he seeks to build his career. “This training has given me a good chance to showcase my talent to the world,” said Kipruto who competed for his school as well as the Nandi county championships. His training mate and namesake Ruto said the fact that he is through with secondary education at Katwala Mixed Secondary School in Kitui county, will offer him ample time to train. He said that he lost in many races due to poor preparations. “Completing school was an advantage for me because I have quality time to train and prepare for the races. Being in school and running did not work well for me but now I have a chance to do better,” said Ruto. Ruto, who hails from Kapsabet, has set the goals right to secure more chances and even run for the country. “This is the beginning of good things ahead. First, earning this training opportunity and then having some races,” he said. Athletics Kenya (AK) Nandi county chairman Hosea Sanga said the two athletes have a great future if they can keep focus. “We expect them to represent the country in major championships this year,” said Sanga who is also at the Kapkoimur Training camp alongside Robert Ng’isirei and Eliud Keitany.