Former Kenya Cup champions Quins have signed 11 players during the mid-season transfer as they target a Kenya Cup playoff slot at the end of the season. The Ngong Road side have welcomed Kenya Simbas flanker Elkeans Musonye and Paul 'Boi' Mutsami from neighbours and rivals Impala, who were relegated to the championship. Others are Simbas prop Ian Njenga from Nondies alongside Homeboyz trio of Henry Ayah, Richel Wangila and Arnold Onzere. The eight-time champions, who survived relegation narrowly last season, have also signed Kevin Ouma from Mean Machine, Clinton Khasai from Strathmore Leos, David Mwangi from Nakuru, Alvin Mwabhaze from Ugandan outfit Buffaloes as well as Brian Ratila from Shamas. Speaking on Wednesday, Quins head coach Paul Murunga said the players signed will beef  up the backline are area they struggled in the four matches played this season. "We lacked experience with our backs in our matches this season. We have also had opportunities but failed to take them but the arrival of these established players means we can go on good run and be competitive for the reminder of the season,” said Murunga. "They will be a big boost, especially in the second half of the season when matches become tight in the second half. You need to have a couple of players who can bring the x-factor from the bench.” Quins lost their opening match 38-0 to KCB before a 24-10 drubbing at the hands of Menengai Oilers and a 27-12 defeat to champions Kabras before winning their first match, 45-20 against Mean Machine. Murunga's charges are 10th on the log with five points. However, Murunga — who joined the team mid last year — said he is encouraged by the performance of his forwards so far. “We played the top three teams in KCB, Kabras and Oilers and our forward pack held their own in both the the line-out and scrum. We just need to polish our backline to get the desired results. Quins face a tricky January with fixtures against Catholic Monks, Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology and Homeboyz coming in thick and fast.