The 2023 edition of the Magical Kenya Ladies Open (MKLO) has received a massive boost after the East African Breweries PLC (EABL) announced a Sh15m sponsorship towards the tournament. The four-day Ladies European Tour (LET) tournament is set for February 2-5 at the 18-hole PGA Baobab Course at Vipingo Ridge, Kilifi County. The tournament is the only LET-sanctioned women's professional golf competition in the East African region. The move by EABL has seen the company acquire the rights to be the tournament’s official alcoholic beverages partner and will activate its sponsorship through its iconic premium spirits brand, Johnnie Walker. According to EABL, the sponsorship is in line with  the brand's 'Keep Walking' philosophy which aligns with the tournament's mission of promoting gender diversity and inclusion by encouraging individuals to take bold actions and strive for progress in creating a more inclusive and equal sports industry. EABL Marketing and Innovations Director Anne-Joy Michira said the move is part of the company’s broader commitment towards supporting women’s inclusivity in society, with the MKLO presenting a perfect opportunity to showcase their support for women’s sports. “We are very delighted to once again announce our partnership with the Magical Kenya Ladies Open. This sponsorship is a renewal of our enduring relationship with this premier tournament that boasts as the only professional women’s golf tournament in the East African region," said Michira. “We are also committed to championing inclusivity across all sports fields and by sponsoring the Ladies Open, we’re hoping it will go a long way in supporting the golfers and empowering them to compete and grow to the next level of their career." U.COM Event Managing Director Dirk Glittenberg said: “We are thrilled to welcome Johnnie Walker as a sponsor of the 2023 Magical Kenya Ladies Open. Their commitment to advancing diversity and inclusion in sports aligns perfectly with the values of our tournament, and we are honoured to have their support." The 72-hole stroke play competition has proven a significant milestone in the sport’s history in Kenya. The tournament has attracted 96 professional lady golfers from across the World, including defending champion Germany’s Esther Henseleit. The Kenyan flag will be flown by Naomi Wafula, Mercy Nyanchama, Nancy Wairimu, Chanelle Wangari and Jacquelyne Walters at the tournament which will be the first in a series of 39 events on the Ladies European Tour 2023 calendar – the most fixtures ever held on the Tour.