Speaker of the National Assembly Moses Wetang’ula has called for a meaningful partnership between Parliament and the executive in serving Kenyans. He said Parliament has a cardinal duty to defend and uphold the constitution of Kenya by performing its mandate without fear or favour. “We welcome the idea to have Cabinet Secretaries attend sessions of the House to answer specific questions regarding their ministries; that is a sign of good governance in being accountable to the people,” he stated. He made the remarks during a post-election seminar for MPs held in conjunction with the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association (CPA). The event themed "Equipping the 21st Century Legislator for Effective Service Delivery” brought together the Members of the National Assembly and local and international experts in legislation. Deliberations focused on issues of governance and effective delivery of service in the legislature. Wetang’ula added that the post–election engagement is a critical event that enables new members to learn about the operations of parliament as old members enhance their skills towards effective delivery of their mandate of legislation, oversight and representation. “Parliament has a duty to protect and ensure that laws are legislated, deliberated and passed for the public good. We will endeavour to pass laws that will enhance the change that we desire to have as a country with vigour, confidence and utmost effect,” he added. He noted that the legislature is charged with a critical role to ensure that public resources are put to good use including NG-CDF, NGAAF and now the Hustler Fund. “As an amicable way of averting constant and future court cases against Parliament, I have initiated a process through a team of senior lawyers who MPs to give free counsel to arrest misguided legal battles,” he said. The event was graced by President William Ruto, Prime Cabinet Secretary Musalia Mudavadi, Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly Gladys Boss, Leader of the Majority Party Kimani Ichung’wa, and Leader of the Minority Party Opiyo Wandayi among other dignitaries.