The Director of Veterinary Services Obadiah Njagi has called for surveillance to curb the rampant selling of dog meat to unsuspecting Kenyans. Ngaji was referring to a social media post on suspected dog slaughter and the sale of the meat to the public. The official noted that even though it is not possible to identify where the criminal activity took place, there is a need to take quick action to protect consumers and the meat trade in the country. This should be done in collaboration with other relevant government agencies to ensure action is taken to deter illegal activity. In a letter to the County directors of veterinary services dated January 4, Njagi called on the officials to be vigilant to such activities being conducted by unscrupulous persons. “Dog is not a declared food animal in Kenya as per section 2 of Meat Control Act Cap 356. This, therefore, makes it illegal for any person, to slaughter any undeclared animal and offer the meat for sale to unsuspecting customers,” Ngaji said. According to Njagi, the slaughter and sale of dog meat constitutes fraud and expose consumers to zoonotic diseases. “I would like to request you to be extra vigilant to activities conducted by such unscrupulous persons,” he said. This, he said will be done by ensuring that all meat offered for consumption in their respective counties is slaughtered in approved slaughterhouses. Similarly, the meat should be duly inspected, stamped and transported under the control of the inspecting officers. Reports of people nabbed slaughtering or selling dog meat in the country have been on the rise. In June last year, police in Nyandarua arrested a man suspected to have been selling dog meat to unsuspecting buyers in the Wanjohi area, Kipipiri sub-county. The man was accused of hawking fried dog meat in a hot pot in Wanjohi town. Police who carried out the raid at the suspect’s home after a tip-off from the public said raided the home and found a slit separate dog head, a sufuria which he used to cook the meat, a blood-stained knife and a blood-stained machete.