Inmates at Homa Bay prison have begun benefiting from a sorghum production project initiated by the Green World organization started four months ago. The sorghum was planted in a ten-acre piece by the inmates in collaboration between the organization and Homa Bay prison. They planted seredo type of sorghum which is resistant to tropical diseases. The organization secretary general Isaac Otieno, the executive officer Vincent Oketch and Homa Bay Prison’s Farm Manager Isaiah Ndege launched harvesting of the sorghum. Otieno said the programme is aimed at empowering the inmates so that they get skills for survival after completing their jail terms. The sorghum was planted and weeded by the inmates. After participating in this project, many inmates will acquire skills in growing sorghum at home after their jail terms. “Prison is a correctional facility and we’re implementing this programme to enable inmates to learn skills of earning a living so that they can implement at home,” Otieno said. Speaking to journalists during the harvesting of the produce, Otieno said they are expecting to have more than 50 bags of 90kgs. Apart from the skills, Otieno said, the project is also aimed at improving the livelihood of the inmates using funds generated from the sale of the sorghum. The sorghum is going to be sold to Kenya Breweries so the money is used for empowering the inmates. “The money we get from the sale of the crop will be used for buying various items for meeting inmates’ needs. They buy washing soaps and other items they may need,” Otieno said. He said the programme is now being cascaded to 10 counties in Nyanza and Western regions. Ndege said the project will enable many inmates to be accepted back into society after their jail sentences. The prison officer said the skills will keep the inmate busy in earning a living when the go back to society. “Many inmates are not accepted by society after their jail terms because they used to be idle. But I hope the skills they have gained here will help them economically,” he said. They will be busy and make them be respected in society after they complete their jail terms. Oketch said they are taking the project to the community to enable people to plant sorghum. He argued that the crop has a lot of economic benefits. “Besides prisons, we are now engaging the community to enable people to grow sorghum due to its importance,” Oketch said.