The annual edition of the Sirikwa Classic Cross-Country has received a whopping Sh2 million investment boost from Absa Bank. Previously known as the Agnes Tirop Cross Country, the event takes place on February 4 in Lobo Village, Uasin Gishu County. This year's race is expected to attract a star-studded lineup of local and international athletes following its huge success last year. In unveiling the sponsorship agreement, Absa Bank's Uasin Gishu Regional Manager Julius Songok confirmed the institution's continued commitment to grassroots athletics. Songok recognized the importance of athletics in establishing Kenya's reputation on the international stage, as well as its positive impact on society. “We are excited to bring yet another world-class athletics event and to continue sustaining our country’s dominance in the world of Athletics," Songok said. “As a brand, we are leveraging strategic partnerships with Athletics Kenya and stakeholders in the sports industry on how we can play a role in scaling local athletic events bigger, better, and more exciting,” he added. Songok said Absa Bank has worked with Athletics Kenya to raise the profile of events like the Kip Keino Classics over the last three years. As a result, legendary athletes such as Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce, Trayvon Bromell, and Justin Gatlin have competed on Kenyan soil. “Through our partnership with Athletics Kenya, we believe we will continue to co-create opportunities and reap the socio-economic dividends that come from sports tourism and hosting such events." Mr. Songok added. Athletics Kenya President Jackson Tuwei urged stakeholders to elevate the status of this year's edition to justify World Athletics' decision to host an international championship in Kenya. “It is an honor for Kenya to host another international championship event. We want to continue being an athletics powerhouse. Therefore, I urge all of us to come together next weekend so that we can make it even better than it was last.” said Tuwei.