Nairobi City Stars head coach Nicholas Muyoti has promised to change the club’s situation after a bad start to the Kenyan Premier League season. The city boys have recorded just one win in 10 matches, leaving them on the brink of relegation. They are third from bottom in the league standings with only five points. Muyoti will lead his charges against Mathare United at Ruaraka Complex on Sunday, hoping to get back on track. Muyoti has attributed their torrid run to an aging squad which he says needs to be revamped to get the results coming. “Many of our players are getting old. We’re trying to bring in new blood who can handle the fast pace. We may take a long time, but we will eventually complete our tasks,” said Muyoti. “For example, Ezekiel Odera is no longer as vibrant as he used to be and he has not been on top of his game of lately.” However, Muyoti has tipped his newly-acquired charges to help shake off the club’s nightmare. He believes that once they have settled down, they will soon be reading from the same script as the rest of their more established colleagues. “This is a transitional period. We’ve had a lot of new players come in and it takes time for them to gel as a team,” he added. Their unimpressive performance has already sent some heads rolling at the club with assistant coach John Amboko and team manager Noah Abich being shown the door. “We have officially released them (Amboko and Abich). We opted to try a different approach to turn around the results after a very bad start to the season,” City Stars CEO Patrick Korir confirmed. Goalkeeping coach Abel Omuhaya currently doubles as an assistant coach. In other matches scheduled for Sunday, KCB welcome Ulinzi Stars at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani in Nairobi. AFC Leopards will travel to the Mbaraki Stadium in Mombasa for an confrontation with Bandari, while Posta Rangers face Kariobangi Sharks at Thika stadium. Nzoia Sugar will aim to strengthen their position at the top of the league when they take on Kenya Police at the Nyayo Stadium while Wazito are up against Kakamega Homeboyz in Muhoroni. Talanta and Bidco will face off at Moi Stadium, Kasarani Annex, Nairobi as Sofapaka and Tusker face off at Kasarni too.