After bagging the men’s Sports Team of the Year in 2022 SOYA awards, Kabras Sugar Rugby FC chairman Edwin Esilaba feels there is more in the store for their fans. 2022 was one of the most successful years for Kabras Sugar, who won the Kenya Cup, Enterprise Cup, Mwamba Cup, Sisumika Cup, Victoria Cup and Kakamega Sevens title. He said the achievements were a clear indication of the club’s upward trajectory since its inception in 2014. Winning the 2022 Kenya Cup propelled the sugar millers to be named Sports Team of the Year during the Soya Awards at the Kenya International Conference Centre last week. The Kakamega-based club was crowned the 2022 Kenya Cup champions after beating their rivals Menengai Oilers in March 2022. Esilaba said their target has not changed and they want to win more cups this year with Kenya Cup high on their agenda. “I meet players frequently and I see the enthusiasm and ambition. Their determination to continue bringing more glory to the club is evident," he added. "Winning the SOYA award was so amazing and as a club, we are inspired to do more good things this year," said Esilaba. Kabras Sugar are third in the 2022-2023 Kenya Cup standings with 29 points after registering six consecutive wins with a game in hand. The West Kenya Sugar Company-sponsored club will battle out against Homeboyz on Saturday after thrashing Blak Blad 67-3 last weekend at the Kakamega Show-Ground. At Kabras Sugar RFC, Esilaba said their priority is to nurture talent. “We have stuck to the words of our Managing Director Tejveer Rai that we prioritise scouting of talents, nurture them and incorporate them into the senior team to explore their abilities in rugby,” he said. Esilaba’s sentiments were repeated by assistant coach and head of the development program, Edwin Achayo. Achayo is charged with the responsibility of scouting for talents and bringing them on board. “Everybody knows Kabras Sugar RFC is the home of rugby talents. A lot happens behind the scenes and the goodwill from our sponsors always makes it happen," added Achayo. Some of the players who have featured in the national team are; Joseph Odero, Victor Emmanuel, Eugene Sifuna, Ephraim Oduor, Brian Juma, and Kevin Nyongesa. Others are George Nyambua, Dan Sikuta, Barry Robinson, Brian Tanga, Jone Kubu, Derrick Ashiundu, Teddy Akala and Bryceson Adaka. At the moment, two Kabras players; Brian Tanga and Kevin Wekesa are playing for Kenya Sevens at the World Rugby Sevens Series. “Tej (West Kenya Sugar Company MD) always refers to Kabras Sugar RFC as the future of rugby in Kenya and this can be seen by anybody who follows rugby closely,” he noted. Player Barry Robinson acknowledged that his stint at the club has been tremendous. “My desire is to train with the best and that happened here in Kabras Sugar  I learned something in my early months at the club which enabled me to earn a slot in the first team,” said Robinson. Robinson is among the players who have benefitted from the club’s education scholarship programme. Emmanuel Kayaro, who recently joined the club, said he does not regret his decision to join the club. “I had a session with coaches who confided in me about the club culture and what makes them tick. I now know why Kabras Sugar RFC is the best in Kenya,” said Kayaro. Omondi Imayi alias Omosh, a diehard Kabras Sugar club said the growth of the sugar millers is a story of pure sweetness. “The club has brought some excitement in Kakamega. Our matches are ever full every time we have a match and this is big business, especially for food vendors," he noted.