The sister to the late LGBTQ activist Edwin Chiloba has broken her silence about her late brother's childhood and revealed that he was loving towards everyone, especially children. In an interview with Citizen Digital at their home in Elgeyo Marakwet, Gladys Cheptoo said Chiloba's biggest weakness was loving too much. "He mostly loved children, he played with them. I think his biggest weakness was loving too much," she said. The revelation is, however, in conflict with the version of events as narrated by Chiloba in a separate interview with Ebru Tv two years ago. In the interview, the fashionista revealed that Cheptoo never wanted him near her children on grounds that he would negatively influence them. "My sister said she did not want anything to do with me. Everyone disowned me in the family, they said I'm evil and cannot stay in that family because I would negatively influence their children," Chiloba said. This, he said, was on the false assumption that he was gay given his manner of dressing and passion for fashion. He further alleged that he dropped out of university in his third year after Cheptoo, his only sister, stopped paying his fees upon their father's demise in 2015. But Cheptoo said she was the one who persuaded Chiloba to pursue a university education after he scored a B- in KCSE. She said she utilised their father's benefits amounting to Sh700,000 to foot Chiloba's university expenses for the parallel Education degree course. "He tried to resist but I convinced him so much. I told him education is good because it's marketable. He took Education Arts - Kiswahili CRE," she revealed. Cheptoo said while in their second year, Chiloba told her he was no longer interested in Education by which time she had already spent Sh270,000. She said she tried to persuade him to complete his studies, get a job then later on pursue his fashion and design passion but he refused. Cheptoo said she refused to support Chiloba to pursue the course and that's why he left home and later on met with the white foster parents who enabled him to pursue the course. "We were in contact with Peter (foster father). He took care of Edwin and that's what I know," she said. Cheptoo revealed that at some point after Chiloba's modelling career took off, she advised him to be a bit conservative in his dressing but he told her it was all just fashion and nothing more. "He told me to Google about modelling. He said he models for both genders. He told me this is what will take me far sister, even the US. So I said okay because I don't understand modelling but some of the dresses were too short," she said. Chiloba was laid to rest on Tuesday at his parent's home near Sergoit in Elgeyo Marakwet county. The family asked the media not to cover the final rites at the grave site. Chiloba was found murdered on January 3 and his body stashed in a metal box which was dumped at Hurlingham village near Kipkaren on the outskirts of Eldoret. His housemate Jackton Odhiambo and four other suspects are in police custody over his murder.