Hosts Kisumu County clinched the overall golf title at the Kenya Inter County Sports and Cultural Association (Kicosca) games. Kisumu County led by their deputy governor Mathews Owili scooped the overall position with 74.75 points, beating neighbours Nandi County to second position with 75.0. Nyamira County, led by handicap 21 Joseph Ogweche, Jared Mogeni, Isaac Basweti and James Onchwari aka Mache Mache, were third with 76.5 points. Nyandarua County finished fourth with 91 points. In the individual category, Ogweche of Kisii Sports Club beat 29 other golfers to emerge the winner ahead of Thomas Odongo and Elijah Adul. Ogweche had 66 points while Odongo and Adul tied on 71 points each at the medal format tournament. Speaking to reporters at Nyanza Golf Course, Ogweche said: “I came here to have fun and make friends with golfers from other counties. I’m happy I won in the individual category although we were targeting the team title.” He added: “The lake breeze was great, the greens were awesome but the course was tough." Kisumu County also reigned supreme in men’s handball after edging Nairobi 15-12 in the final. Kisumu had beaten Kiajiado 21-13 in the semi finals. In the women’s category, Siaya County beat hosts Kisumu 8-4 to lift the title. The games will culminate on Saturday at Jomo Kenyatta International Sports Stadium in Mamboleo. West Pokot Governor Simon Kachapin is expected to be the chief guest during the closing ceremony. Governor Kachapin also serves as Council of Governors (CoG) chairman for Sports, Youth, Gender and Culture Committee. Football and tug of war will take centre stage on Saturday. In tug of war, hosts Kisumu will test their mettle against former champions Laikipia in the men’s category while Kisii will be out to reclaim their women's title against defending champions Kakamega County. In the semifinals, Kisumu were too strong for Nakuru, winning 3-0 while Laikipia also had a 3-0 win over Kisii. In the women’s category, Kakamega beat Nairobi 3-0 in a repeat of last year’s final while Kisii overcame Busia 3-0.