The Garissa county government has given livestock owners 14 days to remove their animals from Garissa CBD. The animals, mainly cows, have been a nuisance in the CBD, forcing vegetable vendors to arm themselves with sticks to protect their merchandise. The animals are so many that at times they sleep on Kismayu road, giving motorists and other road users a hard time. "As you can see everyone in this market has a stick to keep cows at bay. They have cost us a lot because they eat our vegetables," vegetable vendor at Garissa's suq mugdi Halima Mohamud said. She said the county government's notice to livestock owners is long overdue. Motorists whose vehicles have been damaged by the animals have also welcomed the move, saying it gives a bad image of the town. "Two fighting bulls almost injured me and my two little kids along Kismayo road. They damaged the rear end of my car," Abdikadir Hassan, a Garissa resident, said. Garissa acting municipal manager Mohamed Bu'ul, who issued the 14 days notice on Monday, said those who fail to remove their animals from municipality risk prosecution. In a letter, the acting manager said the animals are threats to road users as they cause obstructions and accidents. Bu'ul said traders have incurred losses through destruction of properties. "Livestock owners are required to remove their animals from the limits of Garissa municipality within 14 days from the date of this letter," the notice read. Bu'ul advised owners who want to keep their animals in town to practice zero grazing or find alternative areas beyond the municipality. "Any livestock found roaming within the town will be impounded and owners prosecuted," he said. This is not the first time the county government is attempting to remove animals out of town. Last year, officials impounded huge numbers of livestock and locked them up at the showground. They were later released after owners protested the move. Some of the owners claimed they had decided to let their cows into town because of the drought. Dubat Amey, the Kenya Livestock Marketing Council chairman, has supported the move.