A desiltation drive of rivers and streams was launched on Thursday in Muhoroni subcounty to control flooding. Kisumu Senator Tom Ojienda launched the campaign deom he ab of an excavator. Desiltation targets flood-prone areas in Achuodho, Kasese and Yao of Obumba location, Ombeyi ward. Prof Ojienda,who was accompanied by Ombeyi MCA Tom Onditi, said residents in flood-prone areas have suffered and incurred huge losses due to perennial floods. Besides being displaced from their homes, residents have lost crops, livestock and even lives. Ojienda said early desiltation of streams and rivers will help control floods. The silt washes into the streams from improper farming methods,and excessive tree-felling, makingaterways shallower and less able to contain water, so it floods over. They are loaded with huge deposits of silt. “People have been displaced after their houses were surrounded by water and they were marooned, Ojienda said. He pledged to support farmers by providing seeds. “We are going to work with MCA Onditi to ensure we give seeds to our farmers to cushion them,” Ojienda said. He urged the government to build dykes along the rivers in flood-prone areas in Kisumu to control perennial flooding. The dykes should be part of the long-term strategies to control floods and prevent disaster in the county, he said. Residents are optimistic desilting will facilitate free flow of waters into the lake. Jack Sedho praised Ojienda for the desiltation. The area has experienced flooding since 1966. “Several families have been permanently displaced by floods,” he said. Resident Jane Ouma said many residents who largely depend on rice farming have incurred heavy losses due to flooding. “We fully depend on rice farming to provide for our families and pay school fees for children,” she said. Currently, rice farming has dwindled due to perennial flooding. Nyalandi Planters Limited chairman Boaz Arago said crops are usually swept away by floods. Martin Otieno said, "When it rains. our homes are submerged, forcing us to relocate to evacuation centres." Onditi said residents are usually exposed to cholera, malaria and other waterborne diseases because of the frequent flooding. (Edited by V.Graham)