Patrick Kipng’eno and Ruth Chebet eare the champions on the second edition of the Nandi Barngetuny Memorial Mountain Running Race. Kipng’eno emerged winner in the men’s 12km race with Chebet bagging the women’s title in Tinderet, Nandi County on Sunday. Kipng’eno, gold medalist at last year’s World Mountain and Trail Running Championship 8.5km race lived up to expectations. The race is held in honour of former area Member of Parliament Ezekiel Barng’etuny. Kipng'eno was the race favourite after his gold and silver medals from the World Mountain and Trail Running Championships in Chiang Mai, Thailand. He clocked 56:21.5 to beat 83 other athletes including challengers  Josephat Kiprotich, second in 57:22.38 and Hillary Maiyo ( 57:36.09). The 30 years old athlete who trains at Keringet in Nakuru County, said: “It was a very tough race but we expected it. Mountain running is always challenging but I had done enough training. I’m looking forward to another fruitful season. I’m hoping to defend my titles this year.” Eric Kiptoo was fourth in 58:19.38 and Fredrick Demongolo fifth in 58:56.30. Another pre-race favourite Philemon Kiriago, last year’s silver medalist in Thailand, was relegated to the sixth in 59:00.37. Kiriago said he slipped and fell five kilometres into the race and this affected his progression. “I was targeting a podium finish but I fell. I, however, recovered and I’m happy with the sixth-place finish. I’m now focusing on road races in Europe from February,” said Kiriago. Chebet, making her debut in mountain running, won the women’s race in 1:09.05 edging Borness Kitur to second place in 1:09.47 in the closely contested race. Ruth Chepkemboi completed the podium in 1:12.50.  “I’m happy for the win but it was not easy. It was one of the toughest courses I have run,” said the diminutive athlete. The race was flagged off by Nandi Deputy Governor Yulita Cheruiyot at AIC Lelgotet junction along Maraba Road and ended at Kimatkei Primary School. Circuit cross country races for junior men and women were also held at the school. Winners received Sh100, 000 and a heifer. Second and third-placed athletes received Sh60, 000 and Sh50, 000 respectively. Other awards included goats, sheep and animal feeds. The race was sponsored by KCB, Equity Bank, Coca Cola, Tinderet NG/CDF, Nandi County, Lions Hill Farm and Tinderet Tea Farm among others. Nandi Governor Stephen Sang, Uasin Gishu Senator Jackson Mandago, AK President Jackson Tuwei, area Julius Melly and AK Mountain Running coordinator Peter Angwenyi were also in attendance. Tuwei announced that the race will now be held on every first Sunday of January. He added that AK is currently in the process of standardising cash prizes in mountain running championships.