Clerics from Nandi county have criticised the alleged move by TSC to deny female teachers employment in Nandi on the basis of their counties of birth. Head of AIC Nandi region Bishop Patrice Chumba and Rev Dr Peter Rono of Kapsabet Pentecostal Church have asked TSC boss Nancy Macharia to intervene and give a directive so all those affected can be employed. The teachers had applied for employment in Nandi. The clerics said the move to deny female teachers employment in the counties their spouses come from is tribal, discriminatory and against the spirit of integration. “TSC should have made it clear that it doesn’t recognise marriages and that each applicant should apply for employment from their respective counties of birth,” Rono said. The cleric is the chairman of the Faith and Peace Initiative in Kenya. “Kenya is a strong member of the international community and a strong proponent of empowering women and respect for family values. What TSC is promoting is to the contrary,” Rono said. Bishop Chumba claimed the move to deny teachers who hail from other regions but are married to men from Nandi county is more pronounced in Chesumei subcounty. “I urge TSC to rescind the decision and hire those affected and should they want them back to their counties of birth, should post them instead of denying them employment,” Bishop Chumba said. The female teachers were allegedly stopped from collecting their employment letters in various Nandi subcounty TSC offices. This was despite tabling marriage documents. The majority have been teaching in various schools hired by the board of management. They graduated from their respective institutions between 2014 and 2018 and are expected to be part of the 35,000 teachers the government plans to hire. The female teachers married in Nandi hail from Laikipia, Baringo, Nakuru, Kericho, Kisumu, Uasin Gishu, Trans Nzoia, Vihiga, Kakamega, Bungoma, Kisii and Elgeyo Marakwet, among other regions. Bishop Chumba called for justice for the women, saying it is not a crime for them to be married away from home. “Infact, it is in line with the national integration process and which would end the cancer of tribalism in our nation,” the bishop noted. The two spoke separately after the Sunday service in Kapsabet town.