I have always felt that we do everything wrongly on our mobile phones, be it conversations or online activities.  Effectively, we have ushered in a new era of rudeness that was unthinkable twenty years ago. As the Kenyan Legend and a scholar to boot, I know that Kenyans' usage of mobile technology is both amusing and scandalous. With our famed Kenyan “shallow cleverness,” where everybody is an expert on all issues, we are perfecting this insolence daily. Understandably, I was in a foul mood when I entered Gachuiri Beer Garden in Uthiru for my Friday night out. As usual, I introduced myself as a man who only fears God, hot porridge and the German Leopard 2 tanks that are about to be shipped to Ukraine. These fighting machines not only shoot at enemy targets five kilometers away, but are also the fastest class of tanks ever built. Further, I reminded all revelers that I am a learned man because I have installed sentimental ringtones in my phone. “I have ringtones of a croaking frog, the lyrics of Bob Marley’s No Woman No Cry, Joel and Circuit’s Manyake and Marvin Gaye’s Sexual Healing,” I said. “I am currently looking for the ringtones of Kamande Wa Kioi’s Nyau Ka-Pussy Gakwa (my cat) and E-Sir’s Boomba Train.” Making an exemption of myself, I decaled as fraudsters all educated and grey-haired person whose phone has a funny ringtone. I disclosed that I had heard their tales of feigning ignorance too many times. “Blame my grandson for this! I will kill my daughter for downloading and installing this tune!” “But I have been waiting for the said funerals in your households for too long,” I declared. After my brief introduction, the club mood changed from somber to jovial. I could see that the Big Four of Gachoroge, Cobra, Rasta and Mandevu were not amused. All the same, they took care of my tonsillitis and laryngitis. As I do nowadays, I asked for a water jug and mixed three different spirits, two kinds of wine and four types of beer. The resulting punch was so strong that it could have knocked out an elephant for a minute. However, it sent my head in a spin and I felt as if I was being lifted up. After five minutes, I regained my balance and senses. Rasta decried our Kenyan arrogance on phone. We are often too brief to the point of annoyance. “How can you just shout the call receiving mantra, “sema,” without salutation or a preamble?” he wondered. “I know that the shillings and cents begin counting when your call connects, but at a least a modicum of courtesy can do us all the good in the world.” Cobra had a beef with the growing army of arrogant callers who tell the world everything. “These characters never move aside from the crowd but take all their calls in the midst of people,” he said. Cobra continued that after so many ahs, ohs, umphs and Okays, these cheats grimace, as if in pain. “If they don’t throw a tantrum and switch off the phone, then you can easily read the rest of the conversation on their faces from this point,” he said. According to Cobra, these types of phone users are happy with the attention that they get from onlookers. They update all onlookers on the gist of the phone calls with occasional and loud outbursts. “Imagine the fool I was telling you about has called again!” Apparently, Mandevu had studied men in this category of arrogant phone users. “The men will most likely wear a deadpan face, fiddle idly with their goatees or moustaches and keep on grunting like well-fed lions,” he said. If they don’t like what they are hearing, they will play deaf. “I can’t hear! I can’t hear bwana!” I made an addition here that such guys often hold their phones as if the gadgets are infected with super gonorrhea and complain of some “phone software malfunction.”  “But like me, you probably see through all this,” I said. Mandevu was not yet done. He added that some boastful callers are just stingy and literary hold the call stoppage buttons while talking. Such guys often give you a midnight scare with the scantiest details that can give you a heart attack, he said. “Si you know Mueni? Eh, nipigie nikuambie! (You know Mueini? Call me and I will tell you about her!)” With such statements, the chaps congratulate themselves for their shallow apparent intelligence. “Haki I have called him with only one bob!” But when you finally call back to such jerks, it is all about Mueni getting married and other non issues! Mandevu continued that on enquiring how this concerns you, the jerks may point out that you are a relative to Mueni. “Some village Committee of Experts, currently harmonising the list of all of your known relatives, has just found out that Mueni is a cousin to the niece of your maternal aunt’s half-sister.” I shared an observation about a baffling army of ill-mannered Kenyan women whose idea of phone usage is to make war whenever an unknown female caller makes a genuine mistake and phones them or their men.  “Ati John whom? Sema ukweli sister unamtaka nani hapa? (You want John whom? Be truthful sister on whom you want in here!)” “Often such ladies call back discreetly and do a botched “cross examination” and start a relationship war with what they claim to be “new findings,” I said. I made a mental note to include all these points in the agenda of the forthcoming men’s conference.