@eosere Busia Governor Paul Otuoma has unveiled a team of 11 people who will sit on the County Budget and Economic Forum to guide the budgeting process. The team announced on Wednesday, which will function as a think tank for the governor’s administration on finance and economic management, includes former Busia Senator Amos Wako as well as former Finance Minister Chris Okemo. Wako, who served as Attorney General during President Daniel Moi’s regime and Okemo who once served as Nambale MP, will represent the elderly and professionals, respectively, in the forum. The team also includes Rev Maurice Langiri who will represent faith-based groups, James Nyongesa (business community), Patricia Okello (labour issues) and Benedette Muyomi (youth). Muyomi, served as Chief Executive Committee member for IT during former Governor Sospeter Ojaamong’s administration between 2013 and 2017. Also on the list of people picked by the county chief into the forum are Dickson Mrade Pekol who will represent Persons With Disabilities, Bertha Okoyo (Women), Stephen Ojiambo (Professionals), Roselyne Amunyelet (Women) and Dennis Awori (Professionals). Pekol, just like Muyomi served in Ojaamong’s government as head of protocol between 2013 and 2017. Addressing the team at Busia Agricultural Training Centre, Otuoma who exuded confidence in the lineup, said the forum will offer his government a platform to consult broadly on various aspects of public policy, planning and finance management. “I want to call upon this team that has sacrificed its time to help us reverse some of the challenges Busia is battling with, including delivery of health care services, low agricultural productivity, nutrition, poverty and infrastructure,” said the governor who was flanked by his deputy Arthur Odera and Chief Executive Committee Members. Okemo and Wako in agreement challenged the forum to identify at least four flagship projects akin to National government’s Big Four Agenda that can be implemented progressively in subsequent budgets. “The projects should prioritise pertinent issues affecting residents such as poverty, water and food security which are necessities and then beyond we can also look at infrastructure,” Okemo said. The former legislator encouraged the county planners to go beyond the 70/30 written rule on budgetary allocation and increase the funds for development to at least 35 per cent as recurrent expenditure stands 65 per cent. In his remarks, Wako cautioned that to address the challenges bedeviling the county, both courageous leadership and drastic measures ought to be undertaken. “Any county prides itself in its headquarters and key service delivery centres. I challenge our urban planning executive to work on this swiftly and give our headquarters a facelift alongside Malaba and other urban centres across the county,” the two-time ODM Senator said. CBEFs are forums established in accordance with the Public Financial Management Act (PFMA) 2012 Section 137. Their main purpose is to provide a means of consultation by the county government on the preparation of County Plans, the County Fiscal Strategy Paper, the Budget Review and Outlook Paper for the county, matters relating to budgeting, the economy, and financial management at the county level. During his swearing-in as governor on August 25 last year, Otuoma said he had an elaborate plan that will see Busia residents harvest the fruits of his leadership. The governor said in the early days of his administration, he will improve healthcare service delivery, provide clean water and ensure food security for the residents of Busia. “I will mobilise resources to ensure our hospitals have adequate drugs and non-pharmaceuticals. I will work on the facelift of lower-level health facilities to provide primary healthcare, to reduce referral cases to our county referral hospital,” he said. “We shall strengthen institutional and technical capacities for the provision of effective health care service delivery in health facilities and that of National Health Insurance Fund coverage.” He also said he will seek the intervention of the national government and the National Fisheries Research Institute to create economic stimulus programmes to support aquaculture, cage farming and Blue Economy projects.    -Edited by SKanyara