Kenya Lionesses 15's rugby team and Strathmore University Scorpions hockey team are among seven teams competing for the 2022 Sports Personality of the Year women’s team of the year top honours. The other nominees are the national women’s volleyball team, Malkia Strikers, KCB women's volleyball team, the 3x3 basketball team, the Nairobi Water Queens handball team and Athletics Kenya (AK) women’s 4x400m team. The 19th edition of the Soya Gala which returns to Nairobi after four years will be held on January 20 at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre. Lionesses defeated hosts Uganda 23-3 in Kampala to win the Rugby Africa Cup in the Pool 'B' clash after seeing off Zambia 36-17. The victory saw them move two places up the World Rugby rankings from 27th to 25th, overtaking Madagascar and Colombia in the process. Lionesses will play in this year's Championship which will be used as the qualifier for the 2024 women’s Rugby World Cup. Scorpions won the Kenya Hockey Union (KHU) women's Premier League title for the first time in the history of the institution. Scorpions, who are unbeaten in 10 outings, edged out United International University’s (USIU) Spartans 4-2 to clinch the title in November with two matches to spare against Wolverines and Sliders. Scorpions have qualified for the 2023 Africa Club Championship that will be played in Nairobi, in February. KCB stunned record champions Al Ahly to be crowned the Africa women’s volleyball club champions after a 3-1 victory in Tunisia in June. KCB became the first Kenyan club to win the title after eight years with  Kenya Prisons having won it last in 2013. It was also sweet revenge for the bankers, who had lost to the Egyptians in the 2009 final in Nairobi. Malkia Strikers on their part finished in 19th place out of 24 teams at World Championships held in Netherlands and Poland from September 23 to October 15 last year. They finished ahead of the likes of South Korea, Croatia, Colombia and African champions Cameroon. They managed to beat Cameroon 3-0 in a group-stage match. They also pushed Puerto Rico close by managing to win a set in the match that they lost 3-1. The 3x3 Basketball Basketball team of Victoria Reynolds, Madina Okot, Hilda Indasi and Melissa Akinyi reached the quarters at the Commonwealth Games debut in Birmingham. Nairobi Water Queens were again unstoppable at the East Africa Handball Championships when they successfully defended their title unbeaten in the event that took place in December in Zanzibar. Queens defeated Kenyan arch-rivals NCPB 25-21 in the decider match that saw Cecelia Katheu emerge top scorer with seven for the champions. Queens are unbeaten in the National Women’s League after 12 games with 24 points and are favourites to retain the title too, having won the Super Cup early in the season. The athletics team of Veronica Mutua, Jacinta Shikanda, Hellen Syombua and Joan Cherono settled for silver in the women's 4x400m relay at the Africa Senior Athletics Championships in Mauritius on June 12th 2022. 