AFC Leopards head coach Patrick Aussems was over the moon after his charges exhibited an inspired performance to outplay City Stars 1-0 at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Wednesday. Clifford Nyakeya scored from close range in the 32nd minute after intercepting a loose pass in the danger zone. "It was a fantastic afternoon and I'm glad we finally got maximum points after a while," Aussems said. "If we continue the kind of form we displayed today, then we will have no difficulties collecting points in our subsequent matches. We just need to polish our finishing a little more to capitalise on our scoring opportunities." Aussem's opposite number, Nicholas Muyoti, lamented missed opportunities as his team lost for the fourth time in six games."We still have some work to do and, hopefully, we will be able to get our act together before the important stages of the season," Muyoti said. Champions Tusker rallied from behind to beat Vihiga United 2-1 at Ruaraka Complex. The visitors took advantage of a defensive blunder to take an early lead less than two minutes into the game. Rattled by the unexpected turn of events, the brewers relentlessly raided their opponents' territory in search of an equaliser, which came in the 12th minute. John Njuguna lobbed the ball behind the defence to Shaphan Oyugi, who setup Deogratious Ojok for his fifth goal of the season. Tusker's winning goal came in the 72nd minute when David Majak rose above his markers to head in Stewart Otieno's cross. In another match, Ulinzi Stars thumped Mathare United 3-1 at Ulinzi Complex in Langata. Boniface Muchiri took advantage of a defensive blunder to fire past Mustapha Oduor for Ulinzi's opener in the 22nd minute. Donald Ange scored from close range in the 47th minute to bring the SlumBoys level. However, Enosh Ochieng's 70th-minute goal put Ulinzi back in front before Bernard Ongoma made it 3-1 in stoppage time. Elsewhere, Kennedy Owino's 61st-minute goal was enough for KCB to end Gor Mahia's six-match unbeaten streak at Nyayo Stadium. At Kasarani Annex, Sofapaka had a perfect start to the new year, winning their first game of the season through Ambrose Sifuna's 25th-minute strike. Posta Rangers defeated Bandari 3-1 at Mbaraki in Mombasa, while Nzoia Sugar maintained their title hopes with a hard-fought 1-0 win over Bidco United at Thika Stadium. Kenya Police ran riot over Wazito, winning 4-0 at Kasarani Annex as Kariobangi Sharks and Kakamega Homeboyz played out a one-all draw atBukhungu Stadium. Following the Round 7 fixtures, Tusker are still top of the log with 18 points, three better of challengers Nzoia.