Kenya Cup battle intensifies on Saturday with action at both ends of the table as the league enters the halfway point. The race for a playoff spot will be on the minds of Homeboyz and Quins when the two sides clash at the RFUEA ground from 4pm. They are joint fifth on the log with 14 points each and a win will see them solidifying a place for the league playoffs come the end of the season. The hosts, who recruited heavily during the mid-season transfer window, will fancy their chance of beating the deejays after edging Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology 21-11. A fortnight ago, they thrashed Catholic University Monks 45-15. Paul Murunga believes a good run of form in the second half of the season will see them secure a playoff slot. “Right now we targeting a playoff position. We have the momentum and the new signings have greatly improved the squad. Confidence is also very high,” said Murunga. Quins will rely on skipper Brian Waraba, Dan Suchi, Hillary Baraza and Elkeans Musonye in the forward pack with Henry Ayah, Richel Wangila and Dominic Osino the pick of the backs. Homeboyz bounced back to winning ways when they beat relegation-threatened Mean Machine 31-7 last weekend and will be going all out to disrupt the momentum of the home side. Tactician Oscar Okaron has made seven changes to the team that beat MMUST. Jeffrey Oluoch starts on the open side wing with Brighton Makasa getting the nod on the blind side wing. Jan Remke and Leonard Mugaisi drop to the bench. Kenya Sevens international Amon Wamalwa dons the flyhalf jersey with Haron Lubisia dropping to the bench as Brian Mutugi partners Zedden Marrow in midfield with Mohammed Omollo at scrum half. In other fixtures, leaders KCB will seek to extend their unbeaten start to the season when they welcome Strathmore Leos at Ruaraka. Second-placed Menengai Oilers will be seeking to atone for the shock loss to Blak blad last weekend when they host a wounded Mwamba in Nakuru. Champions Kabras welcome Blak Blad to Kakamega as Catholic Monks take on Masinde Muliro. Mean Machine entertain Nakuru.