A protracted dispute over a prime parcel in Kahawa Sukari Estate in Ruiru, Kiambu, has escalated following demolition of structures put up by residents. Unknown people brought down MCA Kennedy Odhiambo’s office, a public toilet and shops belonging to residents. The prime property is  just 200 meters from the Thika Superhighway. It is being fought for by the residents of the Kahawa Sukari Residents and Plot Owners Association and the private developer identified as Uptown Agencies Limited. Odhiambo, while addressing journalists, accused the developer, saying the firm is behind the demolitions that dealt him and other residents huge losses. The MCA said the private developer worked in collusion with unscrupulous officials from the Kiambu county government and the lands offices. He said the aim was to process  documents to grab the parcel, which he claimed is a public utility. “This land is a public utility which has for years harboured public facilities, including a matatu termini, parking spaces, a police post and a public toilet which was constructed in 2011. "The private developer wants to forcefully occupy this prime land. As we speak now we don’t have a public toilet in the entire Kahawa Sukari area because it has been demolished,” Odhiambo said. The ward rep said the private developer is part of the individuals who sold Kahawa Sukari land adding that they are now back to grab all parcels that were set aside for public use. “Some 16 acres had been set aside as public utilities across Kahawa Sukari. This land is one parcel. However, those who sold the land are back and this time they are targeting the spaces they left for public use. "They have already sold parcels earmarked for parking slots, a parcel set aside for a community water project and even road corridors within the estate. They must be tamed,” Odhiambo said. The MCA called on the Kiambu government led by Governor Kimani Wamatangi to ensure public utilities in Kahawa Sukari are protected by processing ownership documents, including title deeds. He said that he will rally residents to stop paying taxes to the county until the public space is reverted to the residents “I will also  take  the matter to the County Assembly as I seek a lasting solution to the impasse,” Odhiambo said. Kahawa Sukari Residents and Plot Owners Association chairman Samuel Mwaniki said the association’s offices were also brought down by the private developer in July 2021. “We went to court to seek legal redress and the matter is yet to be concluded. It is criminal for the private developer to hire goons and demolish even the MCA’s office where residents are served. "We want the relevant authorities including the police and the Kiambu government to take action,” Mwaniki said. Esther Wachera, a businesswoman operating the toilet said she has been on the land for more than a decade and no one had laid claim to the land until two years ago. That's when when the private developer struck and demolished other structures that on the land. “I have now been made jobless by the individuals who want to enrich themselves with public properties,” Wachera said. However, Alice Wacheke Muiruri of Uptown Agencies Limited and a Kahawa Sukari resident said they are the legitimate owners of the land and they are in possession of all documents to prove ownership. She said that the land was owned by his father Muiruri Laban, who passed on in 2002, and who was one of the original directors of the Kahawa Sukari land. “We are the legitimate owners of this land and we have all requisite ownership documents to prove ownership. Those claiming the land parcel is a public space do not have any legal document to prove their claims. In fact, we’ve been paying all land rates to the Kiambu government," Wacheke said. The tussle for the land has been on for three years and residents now want the relevant offices, especially the county government to intervene, set records straight and put an end to the row. (Edited by V. Graham)