Four police officers were Monday arrested in investigations into a failed attempt to rob a businessman of Sh2 million in Nairobi. The officers were intercepted in Muthaiga area as they drove off with the businessman but without the money that they are believed to have targeted. Two of the officers were armed with pistols at the time of their arrest. According to police, a businessman who runs a foreign exchange bureau had withdrawn the money from Absa, Mama Ngina Street branch and was walking with the same to his bureau at about 11 am. While about 20 meters away from the entrance of the bureau along Standard Street, the businessman who was with an employee at the premise, they were confronted by four men who introduced themselves as police officers. According to police and the businessmen, the four informed them that they were after one of the men who was carrying the bag containing the money and that he was wanted for an offence which they did not disclose. One of the men raised an alarm which attracted the nearby security guards and police officers who were guarding the nearby Dahabshil Forex Bureau rushed to the scene. A security guard from the Afro Forex bureau together with a manager immediately took the bag containing the money to the bureau for safe custody. The two men who had the money were arrested by the four officers who were using a private car- a Toyota premio who claimed they were taking them to the DCI headquarters. Later, the owners of the bureau reported to police and the said motor vehicle and the occupants intercepted within Muthaiga. Two of the officers are attached to Kasarani police station, one to UN office and another one in Juja. They were all placed in custody for the offence of attempted robbery with violence. The motor vehicle, which they were using was detained at regional police headquarters in the Nairobi area. Police say they have enhanced operations in the city to address any form of criminality. Nairobi police boss Adamson Bungei said they are investigating the matter with an aim of taking action. The incident comes in the wake of increased deployment of undercover detectives in the city, as police take steps to destabilise criminal gangs that regroup after the general election.