How often have you noticed white spots on your nails? Well, there's a myth that it's a sign of wealth and beauty. However, nutritionist Pooja Makhija says the white spots show a mineral or vitamin deficiency. Makhija said they are clinically known as leukonychia and are mainly caused by zinc deficiency. She said since our bodies cannot save zinc, it is crucial that we supply it, mainly by eating foods rich in minerals. Zinc, a micro trace mineral as the Indian nutritionist describes it, is needed by vital organs such as the heart and lungs, in their functions. Some enzymes in the human body and even the bones also need the mineral. After iron, zinc is the most abundant trace mineral in the human body. It aids in protein production, DNA synthesis, cell growth and division, maintenance of immunity and enzyme reactions. Makhija said 70 per cent of zinc in the body is attached to protein albumin. “Zinc, also known as the ‘miracle mineral,’ works magic to transform chronic health problems, literally curing symptoms overnight,” she said in an Instagram reel. In case you have zinc deficiency, here are some natural foods you can include in your menu. Sea food including oyster, crab and lobster. Vegetables such as spinach, kale, mushrooms, broccoli, garlic and kale. You can also consume legumes including beans and chickpeas. Other foods are pine, chia, and pumpkin seeds. Recommended also are whole grains including oats, quinoa and brown rice. Dark chocolate and diary products are also rich in zinc. According to Makhija, one can also take supplements including zinc acetate, zinc sulfate, zinc picolinate, zinc gluconate, zinc orotate and zinc citrate. She advised that one should however, be mindful of their supplements as they depend on one's dietary intake. Makhija further advised that one should consult their nutritionist or doctor before supplement intake. Other signs of zinc deficiency include low sex drive, dental problems including bleeding gums, weight gain and unexplained facial wrinkles. Dr Cynthia Cobb, a specialist in women’s health, aesthetics, cosmetics, and skin care said other causes to leukonychia include allergies to nail polish and related chemicals, hereditary causes, nail injury and medicine and poisons. Cancer treatments and heavy metal poisoning also cause white spots on the nails. Other causes include fungal infection. The fungus onychomycosis can appear on the toenails before spreading to the nail bed. Further, systematic diseases including kidney failure, diabetes, heart disease and liver cirrhosis can cause leukonychia. In case you have white spots or lines on your nails and they are not injury- related, consult a doctor.