 The much awaited Mamboleo flyover on the Kisumu-Kakamega road will be completed by July this year, Kenya National Highways Authority official has said. KeNHA Nyanza regional director Eng Julius Mak'Oderoh said the flyover works stands at 97 per cent complete. The construction works has delayed for years causing motorists to incur huge losses due to tear and wear. Eng Mak'Oderoh announced that the remaining part of the road requires Sh300 million to be completed. He said the first contractor was laid off because of various issues including corruption. "The completion of the road, alongside the Ahero interchange, has been a major issue and concern to residents and even the government. I want to assure you that these roads will soon be completed,” he said on Wednesday. Mak'Oderoh noted that the second contractor who was awarded the tender stopped midway after it suffered exchequer inadequacy. The regional director said what remains on the road was putting one layer and chipping before it could be opened to the public for use. "Kenyans have been asking why the government has not opened the road in its current state to motorists. We could not allow that since the design of the road has not been achieved as required," he said. He pledged that the authority was working towards the full completion of projects. Mak'Oderoh assumed his new role in April last year after the passing on of his predecessor and is barely a year in office. He also announced that KeNHA has been having consultative meetings with cane milling companies in the region in efforts towards protecting the highways and keeping them clean. This followed concerns raised by citizens over the rampant self involving accidents at Kachok flyover along Kisumu Nairobi highway by tractors ferrying cane to the mills. “We have on several occasions asked the millers to advise their transporters to ensure they obey traffic and stop littering the road with the falling cane," Mak’Oderoh said. The authority has deployed an enforcement team to ensure cane tractors do not litter the highways and take action against drivers breaking the regulations. “We are working closely with the National Transport and Safety Authority (NTSA) to enforce the 6am to 6pm transportation period for the trailers to prevent the night accidents,” Mak’Oderoh said. He, however, ruled out erecting a bump on the flyover lane in Kachok on the Kisumu-Nairobi highway. The KeNHA official asked truck drivers to obey the 40km per hour rule. "Any driver of these trailers who goes above the 40km/ph will fall and that is what has been occasioning rolling of trailers at the spot," he said. Eng Mak’Oderoh said the introduction of a bump at the climbing lane will automatically increase the accidents. He said the design of the Lake Victoria ring road from Bumala in Busia county all the way to Muhuru Bay in Migori county was completed in 2016. Eng Mak’Oderoh said design was ready and only awaiting funding to be actualised. Sh50 billion is required for the construction of the ring road. “The major challenge to start the project is getting a donor, the national government has no capacity to carry out this massive investment, it requires donors full support," he said. The 484km road and is divided into six segments.    -Edited by SKanyara