Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Association (KSSSA) elections kick off from the sub-county level on Tuesday. The top three officials — chairperson, treasurer, and secretary—elected at the sub-county level will proceed to vote at the county level. In Nyanza, sub-counties should hold their elections by February 3 while elections for county officials should be held by February 10, according to a circular by regional education director, Nelson Sifuna. Regional elections for sports and other co-curricular activities will be held between February 13 and 17, according to Sifuna. The five-year tenure for the current committees will expire in February. The new officials will run the Term One Games, which will kick off from the zonal level later in February and will culminate into the national show between April 22 and 30 at Hill School and Moi Girls Eldoret, according to Principal Secretary of State Department of Basic Education, Belio Kipsang.   Term One games will feature— athletics, basketball, hockey, handball, swimming and Rugby 7’s. Meanwhile, schools have lined up several build-up tournaments ahead of Term One Games. St Mary’s School Yala annual tournament is scheduled for February 11 and 12, according to the coordinator, Kenneth Mukok. Agoro Sare High School's annual event will also take place the same weekend with the Kobala tournament planned for February 11 and 12. Other events on the schedule are the annual Maseno School Amadi Open tournament and Kisumu Boys Open which will be held on February 18 and 19. Ochieng Okumu open at Maranda School and Mbita School Open will take place the same weekend. At the same time, Athletics Kenya Nyanza North region will conduct a three-day athletics officiating course for teachers in Kisumu, according to the regional secretary Thomas Ongwacho. The participant will be taken through World Athletics competition rules and regulations. They will also be provided with practical demonstrations on track and field events during the course which will be held from February 6-8 at Kisumu Social Center. Participants will pay Sh2,000.