For any Kenyan who is aware of the politics of the country, the name Moi brings memories, which to some are good and to others bad. This is all attributed to Mzee Daniel Arap Moi, the second president of the Republic of Kenya. May his soul rest in peace. Many saw him as the man who held the Kenya African National Union party together until he left power. Following his exit, retired President Uhuru Kenyatta took over the reins of the party. He was Moi's preferred successor, despite having been a political greenhorn then. Moi's choice of Uhuru did not augur well with his allies who all teamed up to form a strong opposition that would later sweep Kanu out of power. The party under Moi's leadership had been accused of many political shorts comings of certain individuals. To them, Moi was a dictator. In the run-up to the 2013 general election, the independence party yet again lost another piece that held it together. This time around it was Uhuru Kenyatta and he had found a new home in The National Alliance party, going for the country’s top seat. Uhuru became Kenya's fourth president registering the success that many who also left Kanu had registered. The party went ahead and chose Gideon Moi, the last-born son of Moi as its leader. However, even with his coming, the party has continued to register very little success with its fortunes appearing to dwindle by the day. It has proved to be an uphill task for Moi to give the party a new leash of life. One of the biggest hindrances from a public look is the ills associated with the party since the times of Mzee Jomo Kenyatta and Mzee Moi. "The dictatorial way in which the party was run by the first and second presidents is still fresh in the minds of Kenyans. Our children are taught history and it paints a picture of those times. Our politicians talk about historical injustices every moment they take to the podium to address supporters," a senior political journalist told the Star. "The alleged murders of high profile politicians and senior government officials by then regimes is not something you can do away with even in 100 years." A few days ago, Kanu secretary general Nick Salat was in a bitter exchange with its chairman Gideon Moi. This time around, he was blaming Moi for the party's downfall. This saw the party announce that it would take disciplinary action against Salat. During President William Ruto's visit to Bomet a few weeks ago, Salat declared support for the president for the next 10 years. His actions signalled a man who is tired of supporting a course that has no clear direction. While apologising for having gone against the wishes of the people, Salat said that he will now start campaigning for the Head of State to ensure he gets his two terms in power. "I am now in the government and I have suffered outside for a long time," Salat said. "I will be with you all the time as you change lives." Gideon and Salat have been the two figures largely known or associated with the independence party. Salat's exit, however, spells possible doom for the party. According to political analyst and lawyer Danstan Omari, Gideon is like a prince who has been sitting pretty waiting for a non-existent crown. He equated Gideon to be in the position that Ruto’s daughter Charlene found herself in recently when she claimed that she was the holder of the Office of the first daughter. “That trend is what has destroyed Gideon. Nick Salat was bringing the party to have a voice. It could be talked about but his exit leaves Gideon an orphan on a political chess board he cannot understand,” he told the Star. “The fact that William Ruto is now president every Kalenjin, Tugen and everybody in the pastoralist community is now a Ruto person. There was a rope to cling to, had Raila Odinga won.” Omari said what Kanu now remains to be is a certificate party that needs to be done away with. He added that no one resonates with its any of its ideologies in Kenya. What remains is to see what direction it will take. 