Resident of Riakimai in Bosamaro ward in Nyamira county have submitted a proposal and land for the establishment of Nyamira university. They said they are willing to have the university in the area since there is enough land. The residents said all that is required is for the leadership of the county to support them. They spoke on Tuesday at West Mugirango constituency during a public participation on the establishment of the university. Led by Kennedy Orina, the residents said they decided to put in the proposal since there is no university in the county. They called upon the leadership of the county to ensure they support the programme to curb travelling to other counties for higher education. “We have come here to confirm that we are ready for our university. As residents we have agreed. Our leaders should ensure our views are looked into and implemented, so that we, as other counties can have a university of our own,” Orina said. The Nyamira government through Bosamaro ward administrator Boniface Aranda said the county supports the residents’ idea of having a university. He said the county will ensure the university dream comes true. “The county government is in support of this noble idea of having a university in our county. It is shameful that we are the only county that does not have a university in this region,” Aranda said. West Mugirango NG-CDF coordinator Dennis Kirwa said the constituency office also supports the idea. He said West Mugirango MP Stephen Mogaka is the brain towards the establishment of the university adding that residents have made a great stride in education reform in the region. Mogaka in an interview on Wednesday said the county has been lagging in development since there is no institution that would lead to business growth. He said he plans to ensure the university is a success. “As a county it has been a shame that we do not have an institution that can help us grow like other counties. We are since commending the residents for this noble idea and as leaders we will do everything possible to ensure this dream becomes a success,” Mogaka said. The MP called upon Education CS Ezekiel Machogu to help in ensuring the university is set up, for the benefit of Nyamira residents.