Bungoma Governor Ken Lusaka has assured residents he is ready to implement all his campaign projects starting this year. Addressing the press in Kamukuywa on Wednesday, Lusaka was enthusiastic  he had set his eyes on the ball to start implementing all projects he promised voters during the general election campaign. "I thank God that he made us overcome 2022. It was a year that was full of challenges but I prise Bungoma residents for having confidence in me and electing me back as their governor," he said. "I now understand the people's concerns over the slow pace of development projects since my election, but they should understand that I have been putting things in place and they should expect a busy year that will change their lives." Lusaka said with the passage of the supplementary budget, things will be implemented from early this year. He has been forming his government through appointment of CECs and putting structures in place. Now it is time to be a field-oriented leader, rather than an office leader, so  residents feel the importance of electing him. "I have already instructed my executives that we are going to hit the ground running in 2023 and never be office leaders, so that my government can be felt," he said. He pointed out that his administration has advertised the fertiliser tender for planting and top dressing. The county boss said the free fertiliser will aid vulnerable farmers for the planting season in order to have enough food for consumption and surplus. "I am waiting for the scholarship report which must be implemented. At first the scheme faced a lot of challenges ranging from ghost students and rich families benefiting while the deserving cases were left out. The reviewing will see the number reduced so that those who must be helped are given a priority," he said. The Ford Kenya politician stated that tenders for 23 dilapidated roads have already been won and the contractors will soon revamp them. "We have already commissioned the cancer and palliative centre, eye unit and ICU unit at Bungoma county Referral Hospital, as well as the mortuary at Webuye Subcounty Hospital," he said. His government will advertise 246 posts for health workers, including 84 nurses, 20 doctors and several other cadres to bridge the gap left by those who resigned or found greener pastures. Lusaka said that the current regime has set aside funds for TVETs, employment of ECDE teachers and casuals. (Edited by V. Graham)