Migori county police were on Thursday forced to fire in the air as they separated a group of youths clashing at county government offices. Trouble started as two factions of youths went to the county government offices in Migori town to seek redress with Governor Ochillo Ayacko who was out of office. Sources said the two were not aware of Ayacko’s absence and did not book any appointment for a meeting. The two groups are said to have started hurling abuses at each other before turning on other senior county officials whom they accused of frustrating their attempts to seek redress with the governor and wanted to remove some from offices. “We arrested 13 suspects who are held at Migori police station and will be arraigned in court after we complete investigations,” Migori police commander Mark Wanjaka said. “Police were forced to fire severally in the air to dispel the youths before they started engaging police in running battles across the offices and outside, we managed to restore calm.” Members of the staff scampered for safety. In a joint press conference Migori deputy governor Mahiri Gimunta, county secretary Oscar and Finance and Economic Chief Officer Odoyo Achuora downplayed the violence. “There were two groups of youths who wanted to see the governor who was not in the office and they came without any appointment, we thank the police for restoring calm,” Gimunta said. He said the administration was keen on listening to all members of the public despite their voting patterns and insisted the administration has been accessible to all. “We always listen to the public and work in organized groups, we have been offering a listening ear to all. What happened is a group of outsiders who invaded county offices and caused drama,” he said. The three were speaking as top county officers met members from the Lake Region Economic Bloc who are planning to have a summit in the county in March. The team was making preparation to make the day a success as the governor, county staff and stakeholders from 14 counties in the region will converge in the county. Olima said they will ensure the venture is a success as they plan to showcase Migori's potential to others.