Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Wisley Rotich is seeking to improve maternal health in Kerio Valley, where insecurity causes pregnant mothers to deliver at home, thus risking their lives. The governor said health facilities in Kerio Valley and other far-flung areas of the county are being equipped to effectively handle the healthcare needs of residents. The county has partnered with Safaricom to look into how to improve network connectivity in the region, boost maternal health and improve overall communication to help deal with insecurity challenges. Rotich hosted Safaricom CEO Peter Ndegwa in Iten where they discussed the partnership between the county and the telecommunications firm. Governor Rotich requested Ndegwa to help the county equip health facilities, especially those in far-flung areas to curb maternal deaths as a result of expectant mothers travelling long distances to access maternity services. "In some areas, mothers give birth at home instead of travelling to health facilities because of insecurity. When there is good network coverage, the community can always report to security officers of any threat," Rotich said. Ndegwa said Safaricom has identified 15 sites to instal boosters across the county to improve mobile network connectivity. He said Safaricom will also look into the governor's request to improve maternal health in the county through Safaricom Foundation. "We have listened to the governor and I'm happy that he has good plans for this county. On our end, what matters is how to transform the lives of Kenyans,” Ndegwa said. "Safaricom will join hands with him to ensure that maternal healthcare in Elgeyo Marakwet is improved. We will be having a further discussion on the same." Rotich urged the CEO to expedite the installation of boosters and laying of fibre optic cables across the county. "Most parts of our county are yet to be connected to any network. My administration will waive any wayleave charges so that the process is faster," he said. Governor Rotich said his aim was to ensure that all subcounty and ward offices are connected to internet so that it would be easier for residents and students to access online government services without incurring any travel expenses. "It will also provide an opportunity for the youth to enjoy digital services and opportunities like application for jobs among others which many times forces them to travel for long distances. It will address insecurity challenge as residents will be able to make reports to our security officers," Rotich said. He said the county is in the process of automating all payments. "As at now we are contracting our farmers into coffee, tea, sorghum and cotton production. Once this comes to fruition, we expect our farmers to be paid through a cashless transfer. It will also help them pay for their NHIF contributions through direct check off," Rotich said. Ndegwa welcomed the governor's idea of automating payments in the county. "We will support your programmes. Most of the things we have discussed are progressive," he said. He said Safaricom would also support Rotich’s climate action plan which targets establishment of more tree nurseries across the county to increase the county's forest cover.