Nairobi Senator Edwin Sifuna has come to the defence of Nairobi Governor Johnson Sakaja over attacks directed at him by Deputy President Rigathi Gachgua. In a statement on Monday, Sifuna said Nairobi needs change that compels the city leadership to come up with radical measures to effect them. "Nairobians have stated unequivocally that they want the city to change. Changing the city cannot happen by making it a large kiosk paradise or a big matatu terminus under the guise of "Kazi ni Kazi"," he said. "In achieving this change, the Nairobi County government cannot and shall not be beholden to tribal blackmail, loose tongues or latter-day pseudo-Mau Mau and their fake "bravery". He added: "We must change how the city is run and one individual or tribe cannot hold all of Nairobi hostage." Since December, there has been an exchange of words between leaders from the Mt Kenya region and those from Western Kenya. The war of words was triggered by Gachagua, who criticised Sakaja's move to relocate long-distance matatus from the CBD to Green Park terminus. Sakaja directed that long-distance matatus to and from Nyanza, Western, North Rift, South Rift and Central Rift pick and drop passengers at Green Park terminus in an attempt to decongest the city. The move was challenged in court by the matatu operators. However, DP Gachagua warned Governor Johnson Sakaja on plans to eject matatus from Nairobi CBD. He said that the removal of matatus from the CBD will disrupt business. "I have told the Sakaja that we will have a sitting with him because we are the ones who elected him. I mobilised Kikuyus in Nairobi to vote for him. Any decision that he makes that may affect business in Nairobi, we must first sit and discuss,” Gachagua said. “Hatutaki speedy mingi sana, twende pole pole. Hio maneno ya kutoa matatu, hio haiwezekani. Sitaki tuanze kusumbua wafanyi biashara." The response drew a response from a section of the Western region, who asked the DP to stop attacking and micromanaging Sakaja. The Western leader's caucus in a presser said Gachagua should stop behaving "as if he is the deputy president of only Kikuyus".