The Public Service Commission (PSC) has promised to look into the human resource required by the National Irrigation Authority (NIA) with a view to increasing the production of rice in the country. The Commission according to the PSC Chairperson Ambassador Anthony Muchiri will look into the shortage of staff in the schemes. Muchiri who visited rice irrigation schemes in Western Kenya told the management of NIA that the task is upon them to make the country food reliant. He said should be realized after the Commission shall have ensured enough staff in the schemes. “If we give you what you want, when are we going to stop importing rice into the country?” he asked. The Chairperson noted that by the year 2030, the country should be food secure in terms of rice production. “That is a promise you have given to the Commission as we now plan to increase the workforce to ensure more rice in our country,” he said. Chairman of NIA Eng. Joshua Toro, who accompanied the Commission on a tour of the schemes n Western Kenya to listen to the challenges affecting their operations says the Commission now has a clear view of what they are undergoing. Toro said the Commission has been briefed well and now they have an idea of the schemes in the region and the potential we have. He claimed that the lack of enough human resources had slowed down their operations. Speaking at Ahero Irrigation Board in Nyando Sub County, Toro appealed to the Commission to ensure the gap is bridged. The Authority acting chief executive officer Eng. Charles Muasya told the Commission that the workload in the sector is huge. Muasya said the Authority has been unable to meet the targets set due to the low number of employees in the department. “So for us to be able to meet the target and be able to accomplish what is expected in this country in terms of dealing with food insecurity, we need more staff,” he said. The acting CEO further noted that once the construction of the Koru-Soin dam on the border of Kisumu and Kericho counties is complete, the Authority will require another additional staff since more farmers will be taking up rice farming and further expansion of irrigation schemes. However the NIA Chief Operations Manager Eng. Joel Tanui who too was in the entourage announced that plans are underway to transfer operations at the Kimira-Oluch irrigation project in Homa Bay to the Authority. Tanui said the project is under the Ministry of East Africa Community and managed by the Lake Basin Development Authority. "Homa Bay County Governor Gladys Wanga has initiated the process to have the operations in the project transferred to the Authority," he said adding that the Governor has appealed to President William Ruto to consider having the project taken to the Authority. The 7.2 billion Kimira-Oluch irrigation scheme funded by the African Development Fund (ADF) was to develop sustainable and environmentally friendly smallholder irrigation schemes in Homa Bay County.