Football Kenya Federation presidential hopeful, Twaha Mbarak, has urged local football fans to give Sports Cabinet Secretary Ababu Namwamba ample time and space to address the crisis facing the game. Mbarak said it was still too early to start speculating about Namwamba'a intentions after he hosted a joint delegation of Fifa and the continental football governing body, Caf, in the country earlier in the week. “We are all looking forward to the creation of a Normalization Committee, but we should practice patience as the proper procedures are carried out,” Mbarak said. “It's too soon to draw conclusions and criticise the CS. Football fans will tell you that the procedures taken by the CS to begin negotiations with Fifa are intended to restore the FKF (secretariat) and that Fifa will then decide whether to form a Normalization Committee or not." Twaha continued by saying that since Fifa only hosts affiliate members, they shouldn't be criticized for abiding by their guidelines. “The condemnation of the CS and Fifa was therefore ill-advised. We are hopeful that Fifa in their findings will propose an amendment of the FKF constitution to align with the Sports Act and electoral code so that we can finally conduct elections by the law." He also thinks Namwamba gave resolutions from stakeholders to the Fifa and Caf delegation. His remarks follow scathing critiques made by a group of local fans who see trouble in Fifa's two-day tour to the nation. The former Football Kenya Federation (FKF) vice chairman said there should be no cause for alarm since Fifa will issue a report on the issues that were presented by CS Namwamba. The Fifa delegation led by Director Member Association Africa, Gelson Fernandes met Sports Cabinet Secretary Ababu Namwamba on Monday. His remarks follow scathing critiques made by a group of local fans who see trouble in Fifa's two-day tour to the nation. On Wednesday, several stakeholders—including former FKF President Sam Nyamweya, Lordvick Aduda, Zachary Ndung'u, chairman of the Trans Nzoia County Association, and Charles Njoroge of Nairobi County—cast aspersions over Fifa visit.