Spotify has launched a new feature that will help users capture their musical moments in a music time capsule which they can revisit once January 2024 comes around. Dubbed “Playlist in a Bottle”, this interactive, in-app feature allows you to create this musical time capsule of the songs you listen to in 2023. With Playlist in a Bottle, users are prompted to choose songs that fit certain themes. Some of the prompts for predictions of the year include ‘A song that reminds you of someone’, ‘A song that you need to hear live in 2023’ to even ‘A song that won’t make sense a year from now.’ Users can choose specific songs by typing in the title or can click the “Random” button for Spotify to make the choice based the listening habits. Once sealed, the playlist is sent off and is not accessible until January 2024 when users can open their capsule and listen to some throwbacks to awaken their musical nostalgia the following year. Here’s how to make your Playlist in a Bottle 1. You need to ensure that your Spotify app is up to date with the latest version. 2. Click spotify.com/playlistinabottle on your mobile device. 3. Select your time capsule of choice from a variety of containers. It can be a gumball machine, lunch box, bottle, jean pocket, or a teddy bear to hold your songs. 4. Answer a series of song-inspired prompts such as “A song that reminds you of your favourite person.” Once done, you can choose to move forward or you can keep going for more prompts. 5. Digitally seal your time capsule by clicking “Lock In” and send it off. Users can also share on their social media platforms once they have completed creating their time capsule. According to Spotify, come January 2024, if you made a Playlist in a Bottle, you’ll receive your personalised time capsule reminding you what you were listening to one year prior. The feature is available to both free and premium users, until January 31, 2023. As of last week, Playlist in a Bottle is currently live in 27 markets and 18 languages. These markets are Australia, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Egypt, France, Germany, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Morocco, There is also New Zealand, the Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, U.A.E., the U.K., and the U.S.