Farmers in Ndhiwa subcounty have deplored increasing cases of livestock theft in Nyandarua. Homa Bay Livestock and Meat Traders Cooperative Society secretary Paul Osodo said an increasing number of farmers recently have lost their livestock to thieves. Osodo said the cattle were stolen in Ndhiwa and transported to slaughterhouses in neighbouring subcounties. The secretary said the stolen animals were mostly sold to abattoirs in the neighbouring Migori, Kisii and Siaya, and taken to Lake Victoria by boat. He said the theft had increased recently. Addressing the press in Homa Bay town Sunday, Osodo said theft of cattle has become so rampant that farmers and traders were no longer making any profit. He said more than 200 head of cattle had been stolen in Ndhiwa, Nyandarua, in three months. “We are tired of these thieves. Every week, they steal cattle and as we speak farmers and traders have lost more than 200 head of cattle over the past three months,” Osodo said. He said some of the thieves transported the stolen livestock by boat to Rarieda subcounty in Siaya through Lake Victoria. “They have developed the habit of using boats to transport the livestock but we know their tricks,” he added. Osodo said they had instructed abattoir operators in Homa Bay county to ensure anybody who takes an animal for slaughter takes a photograph with the animal before it is slaughtered. “We have instructed slaughterhouse operators to ensure people who slaughter cattle take pictures with the cattle. This can help us identify stolen cattle,” he added. He urged security agencies to intervene and curb the theft. “We call on our security officers to help us eradicate this crime,” he said. Farmer Maurice Ogony complained his cow was recently stolen. “I have suffered a lot, they recently stole my cow. We appeal for intervention". The suspected perpetrators of crime come from Ndhiwa. “Two prime suspects from Ndhiwa were arrested by police in Kehancha, Migori county on Thursday. They were found with three cattle whose owners have not been identified,” Osodo said. (Edited by V. Graham)