The FKF National Super League enters Match Day 10 with eight matches on the card. On Saturday, fifth-placed Murang’a Seals will travel to Kakamega for a date with former Kenya Premier League side, Vihiga United at Mumias Sports Complex. Seals hope to return to winning ways after playing to a barren draw against Migori Youth on Wednesday. In another game scheduled for Saturday, Mombasa Elite will host Kisumu All Stars at Mbaraki Sports Club. However, Kisumu All Stars may not honour the game due to financial difficulties. The team had not left Kisumu by Friday afternoon. The club’s chief executive officer, Nicholas Ochieng had earlier appealed for financial help. On Sunday, Mara Sugar will be at home against Mully Children’s Family (MCF) at Awendo Green Stadium while struggling Mwatate FC will welcome Darajani Gofo at Wundanyi Stadium. Naivas and Migori Youth will collide at Camp Toyoyo as Gusii FC entertain Silibwet Leones at Gusii Stadium in a rescheduled match. On Monday, log leaders Shabana will be up against Ombasa Elite at Mbaraki Sports ground, seeking to maintain their impressive run in the league. “We travel to Mombasa for a positive result.  We want to maintain our 100 percent record away from home,” said Shabana assistant coach Kevin Momanyi. Shabana will be inspired by on-form striker Vincent Nyabuto who leads the NSL scorers chart with six goals. Kajiado FC will seek to bounce back from their 3-1 loss against Shabana at Gusii Stadium in midweek when they travel to Kwale for a game against SS Assad at Shamu grounds. SS Assad have dished out two walkovers. At the same time, Administration Police Service (APS) Bomet have been suspended from the FKF National Super League and relegated to the 2023/2024 FKF Men’s Division One League. Fortune Sacco, who have also not honoured their matches in the National Super League went to court and obtained orders restraining FKF from taking any action against the club pending the hearing and determination of the petition. Dimba Patriots, Kona Rangers, and Mayenje Santos have also been suspended from the FKF Men Division One League for the season and relegated to the 2023/2024 FKF Men Division Two League. The suspensions are a result of failure to honour three matches without providing an acceptable explanation in writing. However, in a joint statement, the clubs termed FKF’s decision to relegate them as illegal, null and void. The clubs further said the federation’s action is in contempt of court. “This is a very sad development in Kenyan football. Kenyan football is at its lowest ever,” read part of the statement.