Instagram has launched a Quiet Mode feature to help people focus and encourage the setting of boundaries with friends and followers. Once enabled, a user will not receive any notifications, the profile activity status changes to let people know and Instagram will automatically send an auto-reply when someone sends a DM. According to a statement made by Meta, teens told them that they sometimes want to make time for themselves and might be looking for more ways to focus at night while studying and during school. User can customise their Quiet Mode hours to fit their schedule. Once the feature is turned off, Instagram will show you a quick summary of notifications as it brings one up to speed on what they missed. “Anyone can use Quiet Mode, but we’ll prompt teens to do so when they spend a specific amount of time on Instagram late at night,” Instagram said. Quiet mode is currently available to everyone in Australia, Canada, Ireland, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, and the US. More countries are expected to be seeing this feature soon. In addition to providing teens with ways to manage their time while online, Instagram has added the ability for parents to see their teen’s Instagram settings. This includes privacy and account settings. In this way, Instagram is helping parents become more aware of the choices their teens make. This will make it easier for them to have discussions with their teens about their settings through the family centre and supervision tools. “If a teen updates a setting, parents will receive a notification so they can talk to their teen about the change. Parents can now also view accounts their child has blocked,” Instagram added. Parents can visit Family Center for conversation starters and learn more about the available parental supervision tools. These include how to set time limits, schedule breaks, as well as be notified when teens share a report. To give people more control over the content they see, Instagram has introduced new features that allow people to tell them what content they don’t want to be recommended to them. “You can now choose to hide multiple pieces of content in Explore that you aren’t interested in at one time.” Additionally, after selecting “Not interested” on a post seen in Explore, Instagram aims to avoid showing that kind of content going forward in other places where they make recommendations, like Reels and Search. Instagram is also expanding the “hide comments and DMs containing specific words” feature. It will apply to recommended posts one might see across Instagram. “Add a word or list of words, emojis, or hashtags that you want to avoid — like “fitness” or “recipes,” and we’ll work to no longer recommend content with those words in the caption or the hashtag,” Instagram said. This can be accessed in the Hidden Words section of Privacy settings.