Sh3.8 million worth of counterfeited second-generation liquor has been seized and 16 people arrested during a sting operation by police in Machakos county. The consignments' seizer alongside arrests were made after police broke into a private godown located at Kathekakai area along Nairobi- Machakos road on Friday. County police boss Issa Mohammud said the operations conducted by officers from the National Police Service, DCI and national government administration officers based in Machakos unearthed the illegal liquor distillation business in the unlicenced factory. Mohammud said they had put the godown under surveillance after getting intelligence from the public. "We have for the last three days put surveillance in this area, especially this godown because operations were ongoing here late in the night and early morning hours, " Mohammud said. The police boss addressed the press inside the godown on Saturday. He was flanked by subcounty police commander Moss Ndhiwa and criminal investigations officer Fredrick Ikaal. "We got information and our officers monitored movements around this area for the last three days," Mohammud said. He said those operating the godown refused to open the gate for uniformed police officers prompting them to break into the compound. "Yesterday at 8.00 pm we broke a window and scaled the perimeter wall using a ladder to gain access only to find that this is a complete factory for distilling second-generation liquor, " Mohammud said. Mohammud said they seized two counterfeit liquors. "Today we were joined by the team from KRA both Machakos and Nairobi based who are helping us in the investigations. I wish to confirm that the seized liquor has fake exercise duty stamps," Mohammud said. He said KRA had lost more than Sh2 million in revenue and taxes to the illicit trade. "The government is losing revenue. The content of this thing hasn't been satisfied hence unsafe for human consumption," Mohammud said. Mohammud said most of the illicit liquor from the unlawful distiller was sold in Kitengela and Mlolongo towns in Kajiado and Machakos counties respectively. Some were distributed in clubs and bars in the Central region. He said out of the 16 arrested people, some were drivers who had gone to the godown for consignments while others were workers involved in distilling the illicit liquor. "Investigations are ongoing, the majority of those we arrested are not residents of Machakos but from Kibera slum in Nairobi. They were usually brought in at night in buses and canters to avoid being noticed by members of the public," Mohammud said. There were some mattresses inside the godown. Mohammud said some workers slept inside the distillery. He said the godown used to be a bread bakery, but the current tenant moved in October 2022. "It has turned out to be an unlawful distillation factory that is keen to make quick money without minding those who lose sight or die," Mohammud said. Mohammud said they had involved Kebs to confirm the suspected fake stamps. "We have recovered Kebs stamps suspected to be fake with same serial numbers," Mohammud said. The consignments were removed to the Customs warehouse. "This place will be guarded by police 24/7. The owner of the warehouse says the directors leased the premises in October 2022, he had been paid rent for the months of October and November, but he is yet to receive rent for the month of December," Mohammud said. Mohammud said the directors who are on the run paid their rent through a leasing agent and were not in touch with the godown's landlord. "The landlord was also denied access to his own property hence he didn't know what was going on inside the godown," Mohammud said. The police boss warned unscrupulous traders against trading in illicit businesses within Machakos county. He said operations were on to crack down on such businesses in the county. "We will make sure the directors are arrested and arraigned. They will be charged with appropriate charges, " Mohammud said. He also warned against those who collect used bottles for reuse in Machakos. "They collect used bottles, wash, label and repackage this counterfeit liquor just here. This is a health risk, we won't allow that," Mohammud said. "Issues of Rapid Response Initiative on llicit liquor and brew will continue. The alcohol has forged exercise stamps and stickers. It means that the content is also fake and hence harmful to consumers," Mohammud said. He called on the public to continue volunteering information to security agencies to help fight crime in the county.