Police in Western have joined President William Ruto's drive to plant 15 billion trees to mitigate against the effects of Climate Change. Top police leadership in the region in collaboration with the regional Kenya Forest Services (KFS) launched nurseries to raise 500, 000 tree seedlings at the Kakamega central police station. The seedlings will be planted in schools, hospitals, colleges police stations and church compounds, and along roads across the four counties of Kakamega, Busia, Bungoma and Vihiga. Western regional police commander Kiprono Langat said the environmental conservation programme will be carried out through the community policing unit. Langat said that additional tree nurseries have been established at every subcounty police headquarters in the region. “Our aim is to realise the target set by President William Ruto by 2032. We have set up nurseries here and members of the public will be given free to plant in their homes. Youths will be put in groups and given the seedlings to sell cheaply so as to make some income,” Langat said. The President’s initiative targets to raise the forest cover to 30 per cent  in the next ten years. Western KFS head Rose Akombe said that the region's forest cover is 20.46 and looks forward to surpassing the 30 per cent mark by 2032. She said that the trees to be planted will not only be environmentally friendly but also generate income like fruit trees and those for timber and firewood. Akombe said that the National Environmental Management Authority (Nema) gave directives on what needs to be done with eucalyptus tree farming. She said that the Kenya Forest Research Institute (Kefri) has also guidelines on where eucalyptus trees should be planted to avoid interference with water catchment areas. She said that those who have planted them (eucalyptus) should not leave them to sprout after harvest but instead uproot them and plant conserve protects water catchments. “Because a mistake has already been made, we're educating the public on that eucalyptus contributes to environmental degradation and the available alternatives that can give them the same returns as eucalyptus when planted,” she added. Eucalyptus is a heavy consumer of water and has been blamed for the drying up of rivers. Meanwhile, the county will plant 300, 000 tree seedlings in the next year towards the fulfilment of the president's tree planting drive. Governor Fernandes Barasa said that the seedlings will be planted in institutions, including schools, hospitals and churches. He said that the county had established five community tree nurseries that will help increase tree cover in the county. “This will also ease the pressure being exerted on our gazetted forests of Kakamega, Bunyala, Misango, Malava, Turbo and Nzoia,” he said.