The United Arab Emirates (UAE) is financing renewable energy projects to help African countries meet rapidly increasing energy needs without a corresponding increase in greenhouse gas emissions. The $100 billion deal, which is a partnership with the US government, is expected to provide technical, project management and funding assistance for commercially and environmentally sustainable energy projects in other countries. Masdar (the Abu Dhabi Future Energy Company) is playing a vital role in this initiative. “We are committed to supporting events and platforms that stimulate the exchange of knowledge, such as Abu Dhabi Sustainability Week, which is one of the largest gatherings concerned with sustainability world wide,’’ the firm said in a statement. The company’s president Sultan bin Ahmed Al Jaber, has a great experience in the field of Energy, where he held many positions in different industrial fields. Before joining ADNOC Group in 2016, Jaber had demonstrated great achievement in the field of renewable energy at Masdar Clean Energy Company where he served as chief executive officer. Among the most prominent projects undertaken by ADNOC to preserve the climate and the environment are the production of clean energy, environmental awareness, green service stations and water conservation. Al Jaber believes that his efforts in clean technology and sustainable development to preserve the climate and the environment makes him well suited to be president of the COP28 climate summit. “His tacit achievements have served and will certainly strengthen the position of decision-makers in dealing with any probable demand in this regard,’’ the firm said. Recently, there was a debate about the appointment of Al Jaber to lead the COP28 team, as he is still presiding ADNOC, but Al Jaber’s achievements on the renewable energy sector is an important game changer. "We really need practical solutions on energy transformation from within the industry, to benefit from the know-how of experts; and unfortunately we need to get rid of the utopian and unrealistic mindset that plagues the climate change conversation," the firm says. Climate activists’ obsession with one individual is a distraction from the real issues. The world needs pragmatic solutions, not simplistic good vs. evil narratives. The world is in a bad need to act beyond narrow-minded and divisive approach, and focus on finding pragmatic solutions that can make a real impact on the global climate crisis. It assured the world that the COP president will actively listen to the concerns of civil society and serve as a bridge between the energy sector and all other segments of society to seek ambitious, practical, actionable solutions.