The Cambridge dictionary defines "Horny" as a feeling of sexual excitement. It is that simple but it can feel different for most people, leading to one being more aware of their bodies and others', mostly how they look. Sexual excitement maybe caused by hormones, diet and stress. Here are some of the emotional and physical signs that you are horny: Scientists have said sneezing might be a sign you are horny. An article in the Journal of the Royal Society of Magazine said, in a layman's language, that people sneeze a lot when they are sexually aroused or after an orgasm. Although scientists have not found the why, they said it might be because sneezing is a way of "forceful emission". Your blood pressure and heart rate tend to go up at the thought of sexual activity. Research shows that the pulse rate of a horny person is about 70 beats per minute to 150. This means you breath faster, considering your pulse rate is at the same level as that of an athlete in the track. Sexual excitement can lead to your feeling anxious. It requires personal space, especially if you were not expecting it. This prompts uneasiness. Sexual excitement can be the reason you are frustrated. This might be caused by the increased heart rate and faster breathing. The way you touch the person next to you, whether you have been formally attracted to them, or not, can be a sign you are horny. This includes shortening the physical distance between you and the other person, hugging them with your arms around their waist or rubbing your foot against their leg. Most people are sensitive unwelcome touch, especially women. If you are comfortable with being touched a little too much, you might be horny. This may happen when you are having a conversation with a particular person. For men, your voice deepens and for women, it takes a high-pitch. Insomnia can be caused by your sexual excitement, which at this point becomes a sexual frustration. This is a natural body response. The National Health Service of England says blood flows to the vaginal walls, causing dilation when one is horny, causing tingling. Other signs include an erection and hard nipples ( not caused by coldness). To deal with the excitement, one can use the distraction that is music - make sure you don't listen to love ballads. You can also go to the gym or meditate. The famous ' take a cold shower ' also helps.