Mombasa Governor Abdulswamad Nassir on Thursday asked the Employment and Labour Relations Court to throw out a petition seeking to block the appointment of his 10 executives. County lawyer Murtaza Tajbhai told the court the prayers sought by the four petitioners can be addressed after the names are presented before the county assembly for vetting and approval. On Sunday, Nassir appointed 10 CECs, the county secretary, the CEO of Mombasa County Public Service Board and a host of advisors to help him run the government. However, on Tuesday Abdullmajid Ali Busayyid, Mesh Mwaniki, Maria Magdalene Fernandes and Mohammed Mohsin Abdulkarim moved to court to seek orders to block the nominations. Under a certificate of urgency, the four residents sought to stop the county assembly from debating, vetting and approving the nominees because, they argued, the nomination was shrouded in secrecy. In the suit, they listed Nassir as the first respondent, Mombasa County Public Service Board as the second respondent, and the County Assembly of Mombasa as the third respondent. All the 10 nominees, the county attorney nominee and the CEO of Mombasa County Public Service Board were listed as interested parties. The petitioners said the appointments did not involve public participation. They also said the list had fell short of the local employment scheme, which mandates 70 per cent of such appointments to cater for residents of Mombasa. They further argued the appointments were in contravention of the two-thirds gender rule as there are only two women nominees compared to eight men. On Thursday, lawyer Tajbhai said there was no concrete evidence the governor contravened any law in the nominations, therefore the court should not grant any orders. “On the issue of gender, there are actually three women nominees out of 10. Dr Swabah Ahmed (Health), Emily Achieng (Water) and Kibibi Abdhallah (Blue Economy) are ladies. Therefore, the governor conformed to the two-thirds gender rule,” he said. He said the petitioners failed to prove the urgency of the matter because the governor was yet to submit the names of the nominees to the county assembly, which is on recess until February 7. “There is no evidence that the first respondent (governor) had already forwarded the names to the third respondent (Mombasa county assembly) for vetting and approval. Therefore, the petitioners have not proved the urgency if that is their basis to be granted orders,” he said. Tajbhai also argued that the issue of public participation in the appointment of the CECs will be addressed once the names of the nominees are presented before the county assembly. Tajbhai said the county assembly, County Public Service Board and the nominees had not been served with court papers, and therefore could not respond to the matter. Lady Justice Agnes Nzei of the Mombasa Employment and Labour Court directed that the petitioners should serve the second and third respondents before the matter proceeds on Friday. In his 10-member cabinet, Nassir has named his Deputy Francis Thoya as the CEC for Environment and Solid Waste Management, Dr Mbwarali Kame (Education and Digital Transformation), Evans Oanda (Finance and Economic Planning) and Dr Swabah Ahmed (Health) Mohammed Hussein (Lands, Urban Renewal and Housing) Emilly Achieng (Water, Natural Resources and Climate Change Resilience), Daniel Otieno (Transport and Infrastructure), Kenneth Ambani (Public Service Administration, Youth, Gender, Social Services and Sports), Kibibi Abdallah (Blue Economy, Agriculture and Livestock) and Mohammed Osman (Tourism.) The governor appointed Jeizan Faruk as the new County Secretary, Jimmy Waliaula (County Attorney) while Fadhili Mamuni will be the new CEO of the Mombasa Public Service Board.