 Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua has revealed that the Kenya Kwanza government is no longer keen on establishing a judicial inquiry into 'state capture'. During the campaigns, President William Ruto had promised to established a commission of inquiry to investigate alleged state capture and conflict of interest in retired President Uhuru Kenyatta's tenure. Ruto who had also captured the same theme in his Kenya Kwanza manifesto had vowed to ensure that the 'lords of impunity', whom he said had captured the state, would be punished. However, the President appears to have gone slow on this agenda over what his deputy said was a strategic move to concentrate on delivering the Kenya Kwanza agenda to Kenyans. “If we keep following these people, we will lose track of our promise to Kenyans. Therefore, we are focusing on what will benefit Kenyans by reviving the economy and improving agriculture and other sectors,” Gachagua said on Sunday. Gachagua said the about-turn was made during the four-day retreat by Cabinet and top government officials at the Fairmont Hotel in Nanyuki. The DP also revealed that even the inquiry on the extra killings by police officers was no longer a priority as well despite earlier promises to ensure justice to victims. “All those officers and their masters who murdered Kenyans ... left people orphans, widows and widowers ... we might not come after you but you will never find peace,” he said. The President had during a live interview with leading TV stations last week stressed that he was not interested in forming commissions of inquiry at the moment because of other immediate priorities. “I want to promise you the story of Bomas will be told one day… We will establish a commission one day, if you were to sit where am sitting you will know why I am going slow on certain things to get out of the mess we are in,” said Ruto. The inquiry on state capture was also to unravel the events that transpired ahead of the August 9 general elections and what Ruto described as 'attempts to overturn the will of the people' at the Bomas of Kenya. 