Kiambu MCA's on Monday stormed Governor Kimani Wamatangi office in protest over the delays in issuance of bursary funds. Wamatangi was not in his office when the MCAs staged a sit-in outside his office, vowing to stay put until he addresses their issues. The leaders were led by majority leader Geoffrey Mucheke, minority leader Joe Kigara and deputy speaker John Njiru. They accused Wamatangi of a one man show style of leadership and use of delay tactics to frustrate them. “We have no personal vendetta with the governor but he needs to work with us so that we can deliver to our people. He has decided to work alone,” Mucheke said. The MCAs claimed that bursary committees were being formed at ward level without their knowledge or involvement, they accused Wamatangi of usurping the role of the ward reps. They also decried the poor state of feeder roads in the wards, which they claimed have remained unrepaired despite the assembly passing a budget of Sh100 million for the purpose. The 60 elected MCAs from various parties and independents also accused Wamatangi of undermining them by using his foundation and cronies to reach the grassroots. They told the governor to delink his office from the Wamatangi Foundation, which they claimed is bringing them to loggerheads with the electorate. “We have discovered that the governor is using his foundation to reach the grassroot even while distributing maize for planting, which is undermining the elected MCAs,” Riabai MCA Hezron Gachui said. The leaders further said they are concerned that schools are about to open in about two weeks, yet they are still in the dark as far as bursaries are concerned. They said residents have been pestering them over the funds. "We represent the people at grassroots level and the governor should choose whether he wants to work with us or go at it alone," Kabete MCA Grace Hinga said. Wamatangi could not be reached for comment on phone, but a source close to his office said the MCAs were being incorporated in the bursary committees. “Legally they are not supposed to be involved in the process, but it is being done as goodwill,” the spokesperson said. The source also refuted claims that the Foundation was being used to carry out county functions. Kennedy Odhiambo of Kahawa Sukari and Lawrence Mwaura from Ting'ang'a ward said MCAs are required to write to the governor for roads in their areas to be repaired. "Even when you want a blown bulb from street lights changed, you must go to the governor's office. This is preposterous!" Odhiambo said. He also claimed that Wamatangi is working with religious groups instead of MCAs. Mwaura, who is the education committee chairman, accused Wamatangi of playing all roles including those of County Executive Committee members, MCAs and chief officers. He accused Wamatangi of undermining devolution, which is the epitome of President William Ruto's Bottom-up approach to development. Macharia Wambui of Limuru East claimed that the governor is working with illegal groupings and is still in campaign mode by having his pictures donned in county vehicles.