Kenya has invited international movie actor Leonardo DiCaprio to film his next movie project in the country. Youth Affairs, Sports and Arts CS Ababu Namwamba said this will educate, motivate and encourage local film industries and as part of efforts to promote local tourists attraction sites to an international audience. He said Kakamega Forest, Kisumu and Homa Bay are some of the sites selected, where scenes for the movie will be filmed. “Leonardo DiCaprio is coming to Kenya to shoot a big movie. We have selected places which we also want to see them grow, as tourist destinations,” Namwamba said. He said engagement with the actor was part of the government’s efforts to improve the creative sector in general, which includes film, music, sports, and talent. Speaking in Kakamega during the finals of Elijah Lidonde Football Tournament for the Under 15 girls and under 17 girls, CS Namwamba said the national government will work with the Kakamega government to develop sports and the creative sector in general. “We have agreed with Governor Fernandes Barasa to complete the ongoing work of Phase II of upgrading Bukhungu Stadium. On completion of terraces, the stadium will have a sitting capacity of 30,000 spectators,” he said. Once Phase II is completed, the CS said the national government will take over to complete Phase three, which will include upgrading of facilities, ablution blocks, hospitality facilities and world standard changing rooms. “And since Kenya is bidding to host the 2027 African Cup of Nations, I see games of Afcon being played at Bukhungu Stadium. We will also ensure that when we have big events the stadium gets an opportunity to host,” he said. Namwamba said the government will work with the Elijah Lidonde Foundation and Kakamega county for countrywide President William Ruto’s bottom-pp grassroots football tournament under the Talanta Hela programme. “I'm looking forward to using the model that Kakamega has already put in place to spread it across the country. For Kenya to rise to the high table of football, we have to go back to the basics which is youth football and grassroots football," the CS said. "If we grow these players effectively, the way the Elijah Lidonde Foundation has already started, then we will realise the dream of Kenya playing at the world cup in 2030.” Elijah Lidonde is among the players who graced the country’s stadia and football scene, among others like Fred Serenge, Nick Yahama, and celebrities have come together to constitute a team called ‘The Legends’ to nurture talents. “And indeed they are living legends of our game and I am convinced as the CS for Sports that for our football to grow we have to integrate these legends and their expertise in our programme to develop football in this country,” he said. Governor Barasa said the Kakamega government will allocate more resources to develop talent among the youth. The Elijah Lidonde Foundation championship started two months ago with 498 teams, comprising under 15 boys and girls, under 17 girls and boys. The games were played from the sublocation level, location to ward level, subcounty and finally at inter-county championships.