A company director who is on the run for allegedly stealing Sh10 million from an oil firm is wanted by authorities after he failed to appear in court. Omar Ahmed Mohamed, who was arrested in November last year, was to appear in court to answer to charges of theft, forgery and conspiracy to defraud. Mohamed, however, after being released on a police cash bail of Sh40,000, absconded and has not been arrested. The victims in the alleged fraud case are appealing to the authorities to arrest the suspect and have him charged for them to get justice. Last  November, a company director in the same case was charged. Abdighani Abdirahman Abdi appeared before magistrate Wendy Micheni and denied several counts of stealing and forgery. The court was informed that on November 3, 2021, and August 31, 2022, at a bank in Koinange street in Nairobi, being a director of Sunspot Petroleum Limited stole Sh 10,248,592 the property of the said Sunspot Petroleum Limited which was in his possession by virtue of his directorship. Abdirahman was also charged with forgery. The court heard that on October 12, 2020, at an unknown place within the country, jointly with others not before the court with intent to defraud, he forged a resolution of the board of directors meeting of Sunspot Petroleum Limited held on October 12, 2020, purporting it to be a genuine board meeting resolution of directors of Sunspot Petroleum Limited endorsed and signed by Hafsa Bulhan Hussein, a director. In the third count, the director was charged that at an unknown place within the Republic of Kenya, jointly with others not before the court, and with intent to defraud, he forged a Registrar of Companies Notice of Directors Particulars purporting it to be a genuine. The court was further told that on or before February 8, 2021, at an unknown place, he forged a resignation as a director/shareholder on a company letter dated February 8, 2021, purporting it to be a genuine. He was also charged with forging a statutory declaration of affidavit. The director also allegedly forged a statutory declaration of the affidavit, purporting it to be a genuine and valid statutory declaration of affidavit for forfeiture of 500 company shares, sworn and signed by Hafsa before Samuel Makori an advocate and commissioner for oaths. The lawyer for the complainant Solomon Olonde Kepher told the court that the accused was threatening the complainant. “If released, the accused may flee to Somalia and has no known place of abode," Olonde.