@eosere Police in Teso South, Busia have launched a manhunt for a 22-year-old man accused of killing his 66-year-old stepfather over land. The killing took place at Aciit village, Aterait location on Saturday evening. The deceased has been identified as Abisancio Opili. His body was found along a pathway near his home after he was killed using an object police suspect to be a panga. The man accused of the murder has been identified by police as Kevin Omusolo. According to Teso South subcounty police commander Stephen Kimunya, the matter was reported by Apegei chief Mourice Nyakol. Kimunya said the officers, on arrival at the scene, found visible injuries on Opili's body. Residents said the deceased and Omusolo had previously fought over land. Opili, was born in Aterait but relocated to Apegei where he bought land and established a home. The land in question is family property. While confirming the incident, Kimunya said Opili’s body was taken to Alupe subcounty hospital mortuary awaiting postmortem as investigations begin into the matter. Teso South MP Mary Emase cautioned members of the public against killing each other over land issues. She said they need to seek the intervention of government administrators to settle their disputes. “This should be the first and the last incident of this kind. Let us use the relevant offices to solve land conflicts," Emase said. The legislator said there are very many avenues through which land disputes can be solved and nobody should lose his or her life because of land. Residents condemned the killing of Opili calling on the police to speed up investigations and bring the suspect, who is at large, to book. Nyakol called on residents to stop taking the law into their hands and report incidents of land conflicts to area administrators. Omusolo is suspected to have crossed into Uganda since he is claimed to have another home in the landlocked country. Aciit sublocation assistant chief Justus Barasa said the incident is the first in his area.