A judge has directed a senior clergy to appear before the court to explain why he interfered with the management of a church in Taita Taveta County where he kicked the presiding pastor in contravention of the church laws constitution and rules of natural justice. Justice George Dulu, summoned Reverend Daniel Munguti, Reverend Evans Nduto, Gregory Kavua and Dancun Mumina to appear before the High court on January 18 to explain why they kicked out Reverend Julius Kiendi from AIC Kamutonga in Taita Taveta. The Judge required them to enter an appearance in the case filed by members of AIC Kamutonga through Wilfred Muthoka Nzioki. In the case, the faithful of the church says that Rev Munguti who is the chairman of Machakos Regional church council-AIC Kenya (RCC), violated the church constitution by interfering with the management of AIC Kamutonga which falls under Athi River District church council (DCC). Nzioki has named Machakos RCC Rev Munguti, Nduto, Kavua and Mumina as the respondents. "Machakos RCC Reverends Munguti, Nduto, Kavua unlawfully installed a new leadership after forcefully and unprocedural taking over AIC Kamutonga church management on January 8, 2023, from its lawful administrator Athi river DCC against the congregations, will and  DCC Athir River will," lawyer Pauline Kiteng'e told justice Dulu. Lawyer Kiteng'e told the judge that Munguti interrupted the worship service on January 8 and barred the resident pastor Rev Kiendi from preaching or giving any guidance to the faithful. Munguti and the other leaders allegedly chased Kiendi, imposed on the congregation another pastor and directed the congregants to be answerable to Machakos RCC. The lawyer added that under the AIC Kenya church constitution, singular church entities are administered by the DCC which hires pastors and removes them and not the RCC. "Machakos RCC does not have a mandate in the said church council 'Kamutonga' which administratively and procedurally falls under Athi River DCC," the court was told. The faithful is asking the court to reinstate Reverend Kiendi as the lawful pastor and bar Machakos RCC from usurping the roles of Athi River DCC. Justice Dulu said he will not give conservatory orders because he does not know the current state of the church. He directed the case be handled by a High court judge for further directions.