The Sh2.4 billion MV Uhuru II is set to start operating in May as the government moves in to exploit the full potential of the Kisumu Port. The vessel is being built at the Kenya Shipyard Limited-Kisumu facility. According to Interior PS Raymond Omollo, the vessel which is nearing completion will enhance transport and facilitate cross-border trade in the East African region. PS Omollo disclosed that President William Ruto will be in Kisumu to launch the vessel. He noted that other Presidents across different regions will accompany Ruto during the launch. The MV Uhuru II, with a capacity of 1,800 tonnes was built by Kenyan agencies, including the KDF, in partnership with Dutch firm Damen Shipyards. This is the first vessel to be constructed and assembled locally and is set to save the Kenyan taxpayers Sh1.3 billion, an amount that would have been used in imports. The vessel which was floated for the first time by former President Uhuru Kenyatta in August 2022, will also complement the old MV Uhuru 1 built-in 1966. MV Uhuru 1 has a capacity of 1,260 tonnes. Speaking in Kisumu during the Lake Region Blue Economy Multi-Agency Collaboration Framework on Thursday, the Ps noted that there are also other projects within the region that the government is committed to completing. Omollo noted that there is the famous Lake Victoria Ring Road project that is in the pipeline. It will be connecting the counties along the Lake starting from Busia to Migori. "These are some of the commitments the government is undertaking to support the blue economy and also support development that will happen within the region," he said. Others include the revival of piers in Homabay, Migori, Kisumu and Siaya counties to boost Blue Economy activities. The meeting brought together more than 30 agencies involved in the Blue Economy. "When organisations work together, synergy is built and working in silos is minimised," Omollo said. "In recognition of your tireless efforts, as the government aligns the 2023-24 performance contract, we commit to request the ministry and state department concerned to consider including Blue Economy activities in their revised contract." The Ps further stated that he was happy that the Lake Region Blue Economy Multi Agency Framework has already been mainstreamed into the blocks County Integrated Development Plans( CIDP). According to Kenya Maritime Authority board chairman Hamisi Mwaguyait only effective collaboration can promote sustainable exploitation of the blue economy resources to contribute to the Gross Domestic Product of the country. "Today's meeting is therefore a commendable effort of strengthening synergy of lake region multi-agencies towards the desired direction," he said. "Kenya Maritime Authority is ready and willing and will always be your key partner in providing resource support for coordination of the implementation of multi-agency action plan of the lake region."