President William Ruto-led party has intensified its campaign ahead of January 5, 2022 by-elections. Despite being the festive season, political leaders from the regions have taken upon themselves to court voters as they campaign for the candidates. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) is set to conduct by-elections in Kandara, Garissa Township and Elegeyo Marakwet. UDA has urged its supporters to turn up in large numbers and vote for the party's candidates for the by-elections. Garissa Township and Kandara seats were left vacant after Aden Duale and Alice Wahome resigned as Members of Parliament on Wednesday to assume new roles in President William Ruto’s Cabinet. Duale took office as Defence Cabinet Secretary while Wahome assumed as Water CS. The Elgeyo Marakwet Senate seat fell vacant after Kipchumba Murkomen took up a Cabinet slot to head the Transport and Roads dockets. Over the weekend, Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro had intense campaings in Kandara while drumming support for UDA candidate,  Chege Njuguna. "UDA - Kazi ni Kazi. We are African and Africa is our Business. Vote for Njuguna who has the interest of Kandara at heart and will align them with the President's manifesto," he said. The campigsn took place in Gakarara,  Kagumoini and at Githumu in Ruchu Ward. CS Defense  Aden Duale continued to drum up support for UDA’s candidate Mohamed Dekow in Garissa. He took the opportunity and met various community leaders based in the area. "Today( Saturday), we met and held talks with members of the Luhya community residing in Garissa Township. They unanimously endorsed the candidature of Rtd Major Mohamed Barrow Dekow and promised to vote for him.Orio mno, Mulembe Nation," Duale said. In Elgeyo Marakwet, former Marakwet West MP William Kisang will be on the ballot after winning the nomination ticket. The campaign period started on December 5, 2022 and cease on January 2, 2023, 48 hours before the by-election day. The campaign time shall run from 7.00 a.m. to 6.00 p.m. during the campaign period, the electoral commission noted.