A women’s group in Laikipia county has devised innovative ways to eradicate invasive cactus through biogas production. Rosemary Nenini, a founder and director of Iloplei Twala Cultural Manyatta Women Group, said Opuntia Stricta, commonly known as cactus, has invaded most of the farms in Laikipia North subcounty, affecting pastoralists’ community. When consumed by livestock, cactus blocks the throat, stomach or intestines, hence killing them and, at the same time, hinder grass from growing. “Opuntia is an invasive plant that has germinated all over Laikipia North and it is becoming a disaster because it has killed a lot of livestock,” Nenini said. “The plant (cactus) produces very juicy fruits and when animals try to eat because of the fruit’s sharp thorns, they get into their eyes and make them go blind." The group, which has 203 members, uses a machine to grind the pulp with which they later produce biogas. “We use a machine to grind cactus mixed with water. The mixer is poured into the bio digester and it produces more gas as compared to cow dung,” Nenini said. She added that, as they eradicate cactus, they are conserving the environment since there is no destruction of trees to get firewood for domestic use. Nenini urged Laikipia county to help institutions in the region like schools, churches and homes to adopt the technology as an alternative source of energy in bid to conserve the environment and eradicate the invasive plant. Eunice Kaparo, a member of the group, said cactus biogas is cost effective and eco-friendly. She called on other women to embrace the technology and help them eradicate the nuisance plant. According to the UK-based Centre for Agriculture and Bioscience International (CABI), it is estimated that the invasive species costs the world almost five per cent of gross domestic product, which translates to $1.4 trillion per year. The invasive weeds affect the most vulnerable people, thus threatening their economic growth. CABI further shows that if the invasive weeds are not managed, more than 70 per cent of natural pasture will be invaded. Opuntia Stricta was first introduced in Kenya by the colonialists in the early 1900s as natural fencing, but later became an invasive species.  (edited by Amol Awuor)