Treasury Cabinet Secretary Njuguna Ndung'u has urged Kandara residents to come out and cast their votes. Ndung'u cast his vote at 7 am at Gacharage Primary School. He, however, said it was still early and residents were still doing their morning chores and they still have time to cast their votes. "This is my home and this is where I cast my vote. I have seen several of my neighbours taking milk to dairy centres so I think they will still go and vote," he said. "I came here to support UDA candidate Chege Njuguna. Don't think he's my relative because he's also a Njuguna." He reiterated the need for residents to vote for good leadership which he said is vital for their future. Chege who accompanied the CS expressed concerns with the low turnout, urging residents to vote as early as possible. So far, Chege said the voting process is going on well and hoped that smoothness and calmness will be maintained throughout the day. Chege is running against eight other candidates, including Njau Mbuchu( Ford Asili), Kibiru PMG Junior (Usawa Kwa Wote), Samuel Kioi (The New Democrat party)and Joseph Mburu (Justice and Freedom party). Three other candidates, Pius Muiruri, David Njuguna and Erastus Nyoike, are vying as independent candidates. On Wednesday, area returning officer Linnah Kilonzo expressed confidence that sufficient measures had been put in place to ensure the process is free and fair, and without turmoil. The constituency has 197 polling centres with 105,148 registered voters. County police commander Ali Nuno said each of the polling stations would have two police officers for security purposes. "This time around, we have arranged it in such a way that each of the six wards will have a gazetted officer who is the equivalent of a subcounty police commander who will take care of the issues emerging in the area," he said. Nuno said since the campaigns started, no security issues have been experienced in the constituency and pledged to ensure the polls are fair with the partnership of IEBC. The constituency fell vacant following the appointment of former MP Alice Whaome as Water Cabinet Secretary. Wahome had been elected for her third term in the August 2022 polls.