Mau Mau War veterans in Embu have urged the government to fast track compensation of Sh21 trillion by the British government over atrocities meted on them during the freedom struggle. Through their caucus, Mau Mau Original Trust, they alleged the British government in 2015 released the funds through the World Bank, but the previous governments failed to start transferring the money to the country for onward disbursement to the beneficiaries. “The British government has on three different occasions attempted to compensate the Mau Mau veterans, but their efforts have been frustrated by the former regimes that took a disinterested stand,” their coordinator Elias Mwaniki said. They pleaded with the President William Ruto-led administration to unlock the stalemate to ensure the freedom fighters get their reparations. Speaking at Nembure Stadium in Embu West subcounty, Mwaniki said that it was unfortunate that many of the freedom fighters had died without receiving their compensation for the torture they underwent during the struggle to liberate the country. Bishop Elias Rukenya, whose father and mother died during the war, said life has not been easy for them as they failed to get good parenting and education that could have bettered their lives as their fathers were busy fighting deep in the forest. “Our fathers, despite sacrificing their lives to free the country from the colonial bondage, received nothing in return and many died poor while the few surviving ones are living in deplorable conditions,” the bishop said. Cecilia Nyaga, whose father was also a freedom fighter, said the funds, if released, would greatly improve their welfare and challenged the current regime to fast track the process. Human Rights activist Fridah Karani appealed to the government to hasten the passage of a pending bill lying in Parliament. “As the government releases the social protection funds for the elderly, it is our humble plea that it also considers compensation for the freedom fighters,” she said. In May last year, the fighters filed a case in Milimani law courts barring the government from interfering with negotiations and compensation from the British government through their national chairman Joseph Ngacha Karani.  (edited by Amol Awuor)