The government is the single largest institution with a monopoly on finance due to its larger tax base. So, when it gives up on an enterprise, it's purely out of incompetence or mismanagement of resources. It defies logic that Uchumi Supermarkets, despite operating in state buildings, could collapse, leaving other private supermarkets operating on rented or their own constructed premises and registering huge yearly profits. The government's call for the privatization of state-owned enterprises is actually an admission of incompetence on its part. Perhaps it was the failure of the previous regimes to put things in order. However, should Kenya Kwenza surrender that responsibility to the private sector? No! It should instill discipline and capitalize on those remaining enterprises to generate wealth and ease youth unemployment. Mt Elgon Lodge Ltd is one earmarked entity for privatization, but the locals and Trans Nzoia county government have come out to strongly oppose such a move. The county government claims to have a robust plan to help operationalize this lodge that rests on 150 acres in an effort to benefit the locals. On his part, Trade, Industrialization, Cooperatives, and Tourism CEC Stanley Kirui says his department has put its best foot forward to ensure the lodge is not only revitalized for production but is also positioned as a model for environmental conservation. True to his words, Trans Nzoia county is one of the most optimistic counties, thanks to the no-nonsense governor and former regional commissioner, George Natembeya, who is known for his inability to mince words. In a couple of days, Trans Nzoia county is scheduled to launch its 100-day Rapid Response Initiative plan, which will highlight areas that call for immediate remedy within 100 days as long-term plans are put in place to transform the county that has lagged behind since the inception of devolution. The national government should, therefore, not embark on disposing of factors of production without engaging all stakeholders, in this case, the county governments on which the cooperatives are grounded. Devolved units that are capable and have the capacity to revive and run these state-owned enterprises should be allowed to undertake this noble responsibility on behalf of Kenyans. Indeed, various governments turn to privatization for various reasons, either to relieve itself of bulky work load, to focus on some special areas of interest, or to raise funds for strategic engagements, but ours is none of the above reasons; it's out of a failure to generate meaningful output from those enterprises! The leadership appears to evade its obligation to instill fiscal discipline in its officers. Furthermore, selling its enterprises is not a sustainable solution since the devil still remains unchallenged in the mismanagement and misappropriation of state resources. Stringent measures must be administered to safeguard the public's cooperation from unscrupulous officials. Otherwise, encouraging privatization shall subject the public to the mercies of the commercial forces, which could result in a high cost of living that may not be sustainable eventually. Eric Simatwa is a good governance advocate simatwaeric@gmail.com