Insecurity, infrastructure, lands and water were the topics most discussed during President William Ruto tour of Laikipia county on Sunday. The President and his deputy Rigathi Gachagua attended an interdenominational prayer service at Nanyuki stadium. Every leader praised the Head of State for uniting the country. President Ruto attributed his victory to prayers, saying it would have not been possible to surmount the challenges he and Gachagua faced without divine intervention. He said that the government will construct a bible school in Laikipia and urged the governor to allocate land for the construction of the prayer centre. He expressed optimism that his administration will fulfill the campaign promises he and Gachagua made noting that the Kenya Kwanza government administration will prioritise economic turnaround, peace, reconciliation and cohesion. He said that the government will employ more teachers who will ensure a smooth transition to junior primary. He said that more than 300 teachers will be employed in Laikipia county. The President also promised to deal with the perennial water problems and insecurity and construct the Nanyuki-Rumuruti road among others. He further urged the county government to allocate land for the construction of a modern market in Nyahururu and affordable housing. The Head of State further promised to revamp the Nanyuki Stadium and said the government will intensify security in the region by deploying 316 police reservists. “In three months, the government will allocate title deeds to the affected communities in the county,” Ruto said. Gachagua said that the Mount Kenya region will rally behind Ruto and his administration. The DP said that the administration is keen on ensuring that the economy is revived countrywide. He praised Kenyans for electing Ruto and his UDA team despite alleged intimidation under the previous administration. “We will move to all counties across the country to say thank you for the support that was accorded to Kenya Kwanza," he said. He also promised to secure the interests of the people of the Mount Kenya region. Gachagua revealed that the government is planning a mega thanksgiving tour of the Mount Kenya region which will be held at Sagana State Lodge. “We will start the rally from Githurai, Juja, Thika, Kenol, Kirinyaga all the way to the Sagana State Lodge to tell God thank you,” Gachagua said. He challenged elected and nominated leaders to prioritise starving Kenyans. Prime Cabinet Secretary Musalia Mudavadi said that the government has the responsibility to work for Kenyans. He urged Kenyans to support both President Ruto and his Deputy to fulfill their campaign promises. Laikipia Governor Joshua Irungu urged the President to ensure that people from Gichagi Kia Maina (Maina village) are issued with title deeds. He also promised to ensure counties complement the efforts by the national government to address challenges facing Kenyans. “As counties, we will join forces with the government and align our agenda to transform the lives of Kenyans,” Joshua said. Laikipia East MP Mwangi Kiunjuri urged President Ruto to help construct a market in Nyahururu and Nanyuki. He further urged the government to ensure the construction of Nanyuki –Doldol roads and dams is realised in the county. “Your Excellency, we have problems in Laikipia ranging from security, infrastructure and water. We are optimistic that the Kenya Kwanza government will work to fulfill all the stalled projects,” Kiunjuri said. The MP pleaded with Ruto to consider the county when giving out government appointments. Laikipia Senator John Kinyua thank Ruto for the promise to deploy more than 316 police reservists in the area. “Mr President, the risk of dying in Laikipia is very high as you either die of hunger, get killed by cattle rustlers or by a wild animal but I thank God your administration is setting everything in order,” Kinyua said. Laikipia West MP Wachira Karanitold the government to ignore the opposition and deliver to the people. He said that the Kenya Kwanza administration should prioritise stalled projects to empower residents. The MP said that Laikipia has a lot of potential if all leaders work together. Other leaders who attended included Kirinyaga Governor Ann Waiguru and Kiambu Senator Karungo Thangw’a among others.