Defence Cabinet Secretary Aden Duale on Thursday expressed optimism that the ruling party UDA will carry the day. Speaking at the Garissa library after casting his vote, Duale remained confident that Mohamed Barrow Dekow will have the last laugh. “Am asking people of Garissa as they come to vote to keep peace because peace is paramount and this is a cosmopolitan constituency and the people’s choice must be accepted,” he said. Duale said IEBC should be given space to provide free, fair and credible elections noting that the government should also make available enough security. The CS used the opportunity to thank the constituents for standing with him throughout his political journey spanning 15 years as the area MP. “I thank the great people of Garissa township for the support you offered me. You overwhelmingly voted for me four consecutive times on different parties. I am truly humbled,” he said. “I am happy that today I am voting for someone else after voting for myself for so many years." The by-election started with extremely low voter turnout with leaders calling for calm. The usually long queues characterised during elections were reduced. Similar patterns were witnessed in all polling stations with officials attributing voter apathy with failed political pledges that had become synonymous with every election cycle. There were no major incidents reported. However, unsubstantiated claims of voter bribery were rife in some places. Local leaders called for calm urging residents to stay peaceful and wait for the final verdict from the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. Those in the race are Dekow Mohamed Barrow of UDA also popularly known as Major Dekow, Nassir Dolal alias Jofle, Ibrahim Malow (Narc Kenya), Abdifaisal Amin (ODM) and former Fafi mp Abdikarim Osman of Democratic Party. Kenya Kwanza has Major Dekow of UDA, Abdikarim of the Democratic Party (DP) and Nasir Dolal of UDM while Azimio has Muhiadin Abdirashid of DAP-Kenya, Ibrahim Malow of Narc-Kenya, Abdifaisal Amin of ODM. Dolala and Dekow urged voters to come and exercise their right to choose their representative in Parliament. Dekow said he is happy with how the electoral body has been conducting the elections and also with security agencies deployed to various polling centres. He termed as unfortunate the low voter turnout, hoping that the residents will turn out before voting time lapses.