Kiambu governor Kimani Wamatangi on Thursday said that the ongoing construction of the central medical store in Ruiru Level 4 Hospital will be automated upon completion. The governor said the facility store will help to store all procured drugs before distribution to various hospitals across the County. Wamatangi said his administration has prioritized the improvement of health facilities across the County to promote quality care. The governor said this during the inspection tour of the ongoing construction of the new Githunguri Level 5 Hospital, Ngewa Health Center, (level 3), and Ruiru Level 4 Hospital. He noted that his administration has put a premium on equipping and upgrading health centres to end the influx of patients into level 4 and 5 hospitals. He expressed optimism that the completion of the medical storage facility in Ruiru level 4 will serve a great purpose. He said the facility will be the central storage for the entire Kiambu County, and a systematic process will be used to ensure all health facilities will be re-stocked with the click of a button. He said this will hasten the service delivery to the community and ensure proper restocking of the medicine. “My administration is renovating and upgrading all our health facilities, including Level Two and Level Three hospitals, as well as equipping and stocking them with adequate drugs to ensure that patients receive all services within the facilities, “he said. He further said that Githunguri Level 5 Hospital upon completion will serve as a referral hospital and specialized hospital serving residents from Githunguri, Limuru, Lari, Gatundu South, Ruiru, and parts of Kiambu sub-counties. Residents of Gatundu North last year protested the poor state of Igegania Level Four Hospital, the main medical facility in the constituency. Wamatangi during an impromptu visit to the facility expressed his disappointment and urged the relevant authority to embark on solving the problem expressed. Wamatangi recently launched mass registration of the NHIF exercise and distributed medical accessories worth more than sh 60 million in partnership with KEMSA. Present during the medical tour on Thursday includes the county health management team led by County Executive Committee Member for Health Services Dr. Joseph Murega and Chief Officer Dr. Patrick Nyagah, and the respective Members of the County Assembly of Kiambu.