Veteran athletics manager Gabriella Rosa wants those found guilty of doping jailed. He urged Kenyan athletes to end the menace or suffer, noting that doping has no place in the world of sports today. Rosa was speaking in Eldoret after venturing into bicycle management in the country. The coach, who is the owner of Rosa Associati Athletics Management Training Camp in Kaptagat, Uasin Gishu county, is planning to put up the bikers camp in Kaptagat. Rosa said the country is a good training base for sportsmen and women because it is an all-weather nation, especially for long distances. “When I decided to venture into Kenya athletics several years ago, things were good until recently when the doping menace set in. "The country has incredible talent but doping is bound to take them south in as far as their careers are concerned. "Doping must stop completely lest they will destroy the country. Those involved in doping including medical doctors, pharmacists, coaches, and athletes among others should be jailed," he said Rosa said besides athletics, he wants to focus on cycling in a bid to create an alternative sport for Kenya. “We need to organize a training camp just like in athletics and invite teams from across the world to train here because there are good opportunities. My suggestion is to organize a camp in Kaptagat due to the high altitude which is very important and good for training,” he said. He added that Africa is more important for developing new talent across all sports. “I want to give a chance to everybody but you must be clean from doping,” he said. Jared Otiende, one of the bikers, described Rosa's latest project as a dream come true after many years of struggling. “For a long time, we have been yearning for this and we are happy this is happening. It's been a struggle but we are happy things are looking up. In the past, we have had to buy our own bikes, create our own routes, and get our coaches locally among others. The latest move will give cycling a professional touch,” he said.