Egypt, Ghana and East Africa duo of Uganda and Tanzania have confirmed participation in the African Cup for Club Championships slated for February 13-17 in Nairobi. The five-day annual championship will be played at Kenton College, Kileleshwa after Africa Hockey Federation granted the Kenya Hockey Union the rights to stage the continent's premier club competition. Kenya last hosted the event in 2016. Butali Warriors (men) and Strathmore Scorpions (ladies) have already booked their slots for the tournament. Scorpions were crowned league champions in November with two games to spare while Butali are on course to a fourth straight league title. KHU secretary general Wycliffe Ongori said he's unsure whether more countries would enrol for the tournament owing to the perennial financial challenges across Sub-Saharan Africa. "We are hopeful that more teams will accept the invitation so that we can make the tournament one of a kind. However, we have to be very realistic," said Ongori. "Maybe having another team join the party be a tall order. As a country, we will be happy to have as many nations as possible take part but lack of finances has been an Achilles heel and an inherent problem across the Sub-Saharan Africa region." Ongori expects Kenyan clubs to grab the opportunity to allow their players get the exposure they so badly yearn for. He observed that the competition will be vital for the development of junior players who impressed on the international stage last year. "We hope to continue on the same upward trajectory. Teams and players need these experiences even as we endeavour to build national teams of about 50 players each (both men and women). The national league resumes this weekend after the festive break and the season is expected to end on January 29. Meanwhile, Western Jaguars coach Mike Malungu wants his charges to win their forthcoming matches against Wazalendo and Parkroad Badgers as they seek to cement second place. Jaguars, with 35 points, are seven points clear of third-placed Kenya Police, who have four more games to go play. "Our work is cut out. We have to finish second to guarantee ourselves an automatic slot for the ACCC," Malungu said. "I hope to have all the players back in training this week."