Fast-rising KCB middle-blocker Elizabeth Lemosiany wants the MAA Community to shun restrictive traditions and give the  girl child a chance to feature in sports. The 18-year old, who was recently snapped up by the bankers from volleyball powerhouse Kwanthanze, is the first Maasai  girl to play in the Kenya Volleyball Federation league. The Laikipia County native said their girls need equal opportunities just like their male counterparts if they are to make it in life since education alone is not enough. "It is heart-wrenching that the counties where the MAA community are found do not recognise (women) sports. Leaders and even stakeholders believe sports does not add value," bemoaned Lemosiany. "Their misconceptions are misguided because we have seen sportswomen make it in life through sports. I don't discredit education but it needs to be backed by co-curricular activities." She added: "Give girls a chance. It is unthinkable that girls are overlooked. Parents think sports lead to moral decay. When you turn 18, you are an adult who knows what is expected of you." Lemosiany said its a pity most of her age-mates have been held back by these cultural stereotypes. "We had a very strong netball team at primary school that was the talk of the village. But look... All my agemates are gone. Most of them are married. Some are idle at home; their progress in education was even halted." "We need equal treatment like our male counterparts. Give the girl-child freedom to make decisions and fulfil the desires of their hearts without hindrances," she added. The towering player is now keen to use her experiences as motivation in her exploiting her talent. "When I sacrificed holidays to train especially at home, people tried to dampen my spirit. Some would say 'it's not good, you are wasting time'. Even agemates intimidate you but I knew what I was up to. Giving a deaf ear to distractors really helped," she revealed. "I used to borrow my father's phone to watch volleyball on Youtube and that is how I fell in love with the game from a tender age. Coach Justine Kigwari of Kwanthanze also pushed me hard in training." Lemosiany is keen to leave a mark on the court  and believes KCB is the best place for her to grow.