MultiChoice, the African broadcast partner and member of the Earthshot Prize Global Alliance has issued a call for climate change activists and innovators across Africa to submit nominations for the Earthshot Prize. The Earthshot Prize is a global environmental prize to discover, accelerate and scale ground-breaking solutions to repair and regenerate the planet. It has begun its 2023 search for breakthrough solutions to solve the globe’s biggest environmental challenges. African organisations, businesses, governments and individuals doing scalable and impactful work in this capacity are urged to submit nominations. Potential nominees can enter into any of the five categories of the Earthshot prize. These include protecting and restoring nature, cleaning our air, reviving our oceans, building a waste-free world and fixing our climate. The prize is awarded annually to five winners, each receiving a $1.2 million grant to scale their projects. According to a press statement by MultiChoice, each year, the Earthshot Prize launches a global search for breakthrough solutions, with a worldwide network of more than 350 nominating individuals and organizations from 66 countries. MultiChoice Group chairman Imtiaz Patel said that through the prize, African innovators will be afforded the platform to pitch their solutions. He said that innovators will inspire other corporates to join the fight against climate change and motivate governments to prioritize climate change as part of their national agendas. “If you have a worthy intervention whose solution makes significant progress towards achieving any of the five Earthshots, we urge you to send in your nomination and be part of the solution,” Patel said. During its first launch in 2021, three African organisations were selected as the Earthshot Prize finalists. These were Pole Pole Foundation (DRC), Reeddi Capsules (Nigeria), and Sanergy (Kenya). On December 2, 2022, Prince William together with The Earthshot Prize revealed the 2022 winners. The final five winners were selected from a group of 15 finalists from 10 different countries The five winners Earthshot Prize winners for 2022 were Indigenous Women of the Great Barrier Reef (Australia), Kheyti (India), Mukuru Clean Stoves (Kenya), Notpla (United Kingdom), and 44.01 (Oman). Mukuru Clean Stoves won the coveted environmental prize during the inspirational awards ceremony held in Boston. The startup provides cleaner-burning stoves to Kenyan women to reduce unhealthy indoor pollution and provide a safer way to cook. In addition to the $1.2 million prize, Mukuru Clean Stoves will benefit from a global network of professional and technical support to scale their work. This includes access to resources across numerous professions and sectors such as manufacturing, retail, supply chains, legal advice, digital technology, business strategy, and government relations via The Earthshot Prize Global Alliance. The Prize will allow Mukuru Clean Stoves to create an even cleaner stove that burns ethanol, and within three years, they hope to reach one million customers. Within the decade, they hope to expand their impact to ten million people all over Africa. MultiChoice said that they are not only urging African innovators to enter the environmental prize but have also partnered with Earthshot Prize to help accelerate and spotlight the ingenuity and ambition of innovators, activists and scientists across Africa.