Double Olympic 1500 metres champion, Faith Kipyegon, has expressed interest in venturing into marathon in the future. In an exclusive interview, Kipyegon stated that the unprecedented success of Kenya's marathon legend Eliud Kipchoge has inspired and nourished her dream. Kipyegon said Kipchoge has perplexed the world with an incredible string of masterstroke performances that she wishes to emulate. Both Kipchoge and Kipyegon stole the show at the 2023 Sports Personality of the Year Awards (SOYA) gala held last Friday at the KICC, where they received top honors for their achievements. Whereas Kipchoge laid claim to the men's Sports Personality of the Year accolade, Kipyegon ran away with the women's honours. “As my career progresses, I will continue to look up to Eliud because he is the greatest marathoner of all time. That is something I hope to do in the future," Kipyegon said. “I aspire to grow as a person and an athlete like him, as well as to be the greatest marathoner of all time,” she added. Even as Kipyegon considers a drastic change from the track to the tarmac, she is still eager to add to her impressive collection of titles and honours. Her main goal this year is to break the world record, which she admits has been elusive in the past. “I'm hoping that this year will be a successful one for me and all Kenyan athletes. I have very high expectations. I intend to break the world record, and I hope to do so in style. I narrowly missed out on the record last year, and I'm not sure how,” Kipyegon said. Kipyegon, 29, has predicted that Kenya will find a suitable replacement for her once she retires from the 1500m race, claiming that the country is brimming with undiscovered talent. “I encourage girls who want to follow in my footsteps to work extremely hard, follow their hearts and strive for their dreams,” Kipyegon said. “The secret is to be disciplined and work hard every day, waking up early and going for a run. It takes a lot of effort and planning. You can't run well if you don't prepare well.” Kipyegon expressed her delight at being named sports personality of the year. “I was not expecting the award, but by God's grace, I received it. This has increased my motivation to work harder. I dedicate the award to my husband, who has been so encouraging since we met, and to my daughter.” To all my fans, please continue to support and appreciate what I do," she concluded. Kipyegon is only the second woman in history to win back-to-back Olympic gold medals, having triumphed in Rio in 2016 and Tokyo in 2020. She has won or finished second in every major championship since 2015, and is widely regarded as the greatest female 1500m runner in history. She put on a spectacular performance in the women's 1500m final at Oregon22 in Eugene, clocking an impressive 3:52.96 on her way to retaining the world title she won in 2017. Kipyegon was named to the World Female Athlete of the Year shortlist, which was ultimately won by American hurdler and sprinter Sydney McLaughlin-Levrone.