Shutterstock Inc has announced the launch of its AI image generation platform. The tool has been made available to use by all Shutterstock customers globally in every language the site offers. The text-to-image technology converts prompt into larger-than-life, ethically created visuals ready for licensing. This tool is the latest addition to Creative Flow, Shutterstock’s extensive toolkit that has been specifically designed to power the most seamless creative experience possible. Shutterstock CEO Paul Hennessy said that they have developed strategic partnerships over the past two years with key industry players like OpenAI, Met and LG AI research to fuel their generative AI research efforts. He said that they are currently able to uniquely bring responsibly-produced generative AI capabilities to their customers. "Our easy-to-use generative platform will transform the way people tell their stories. You no longer have to be a design expert or have access to a creative team to create exceptional work," Hennessy said. “Our tools are built on an ethical approach and on a library of assets that represents the diverse world we live in. We also ensure that the artists whose works contributed to the development of these models are recognised and rewarded." Shutterstock allows one to search for stock images, create and publish designs as well as generate content. According to a statement made by the company, Shutterstock, through the AI image generation tool, is seeking to revolutionise the way visuals are created for campaigns, projects, and brands by making generative AI accessible to all. “One can further polish their newly generated asset in Create, our easy-to-use editing tool that lets you customize your visuals without being a professional designer, and plug it into the rest of the applications that make up Shutterstock's Creative Flow,” the statement read in part. “This results in the perfect piece of content every time, allowing you to bridge the gap between idea, design, and execution.” Every Shutterstock customer already has access to this entire suite of tools through their current subscription. The new tool is powered by OpenAI’s DALL-E. In October 2022, Shutterstock unveiled its action plan to launch AI-generated content capabilities. This was in partnership with OpenAI to launch a fund to compensate artists for their contributions and focus its R&D machine on gathering and publishing insights related to AI-generated content.