At least 25 million people in Kenya are suffering from one or two Neglected Tropical Diseases(NTDS). This information comes in even as the government reiterates its commitment to address the public health concern. According to the Health Cabinet Secretary  Susan Nakhumicha, the country has imported 16 out of the 20 listed NTDs. Nakhumicha said the highest NTD disease burden, was in rural communities where there is low access to sanitation, clean water and limited access to affordable healthcare. The NTDs among them Buruli Ulcer, Trypanosomiasis (sleeping sickness), Dracunculiasis (Guinea worm disease), Dengue fever, Leprosy (Hansen’s disease), Rabies and snakebite envenoming, she said have negative effects and contribute to rising levels of poverty. "Beyond their negative impact on health NTDs contribute to an ongoing cycle of poverty and stigma that leaves people unable to work, go to school or participate fully in family and community life," she said. The CS added that NTDs are a devastating obstacle to human and socio-economic development, however, there is evidence that control of these diseases can contribute to achieving sustainable development goals. Nakhumicha's speech was read on her behalf by Wycliffe Omondi, head of Division, Vector Borne and Neglected Tropical Diseases during the national celebrations to mark World NTD’s day in Kisumu on Monday. The CS also stressed the government was committed to eliminating the diseases. Over the last 10 years, the national government has steered the control and elimination of NTDs by developing policies and strategic plans to guide the achievement of both global and locally set targets. Nakhumicha stated that  Kenya became the first African country to launch a five-year national plan (2011-15) for the integrated control of NTDs National Strategic Plan (2016-20) and the Breaking Transmission Strategy (2019-23). Other policies, she said include the Preventive Chemotherapy NTDs and Strategic Plan for Control of Leishmaniasis (2021-25). She noted that policy documents saw the country declared Guinea Worm free in 2018 adding that various interventions have been rolled out to control the other neglected tropical diseases. "The country is committed to eliminating Trypanosomiasis and River Blindness by 2025 and Elephantiasis and Blinding Trachoma by the year 2027," she said. The CS also called for increased allocation of resources and political goodwill to win the war against NTDs and ensure access to essential medicines for those infected. As a long-term measure, she said the ministry will continue to prioritise Universal Health Coverage and access to clean water and sanitation to meet WHO targets of ending NTDs by 2030.