Narok county will host the 42nd edition of the Kenya Communications Sports Organisation (KECOSO) games. Kecoso governing council also announced that this year’s edition will be held from August 19-26, according to the secretary general, Omole Asiko. Asiko said the governing council settled on Narok based on several parameters including hotel capacity to host officials and participants, and security and safety arrangements. Other considerations were county readiness and commitment to host the games. “We look forward to welcoming our member organizations, sponsors, participants, officials and guests to Narok for this year’s edition of the games,” said Asiko. He said Narok beat Nakuru, Eldoret, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, and Meru to win the bid to host the annual games. “Our inspection team visited the counties and found out that their stadia are not ready. We did not want to gamble which is why we settled on Narok. In Narok, most of the games will be held within the town which is convenient for us,” said Asiko. Asiko said Narok Stadium will host most of the games while others will be held at Maasai Mara University. Asiko, however, added that Nakuru will host golf since Narok does not have a golf course. “We wanted to hold golf in Naivasha but the golf courses there are private,” he added. He noted that they will make further visits to Narok for meetings with Governor Patrick Ole Ntutu. “We want to ensure that everything is in place and we need assurance from the governor that county will be behind the games,” Asiko said. This year’s event will feature 12 disciplines including athletics, golf, snooker, swimming, basketball, football, darts, pool, scrabble, volleyball, netball and table tennis. Kecoso was founded in 1978 and brings together government agencies under the ministries of Roads and Transport, Information, Communications and Digital Economy and Sports. The objectives of the games include promoting sports activities within member organizations; promoting closer relationships and business interaction, and creating awareness of the services and products rendered. Other objectives include promoting peaceful co-existence and national unity through sports. 