The National Police Service has recognised sixteen senior police officers in Machakos county for their exemplary work. The officers were feted during the police end year party and thanksgiving ceremony at county police headquarters on Saturday. The event was hosted by Machakos county police commander Issa Mohammud with Eastern regional police commander Rono Bunei and his DCI counterpart George Waithaka as special guests. It was attended by all subcounty police commanders from Machakos including subcounty criminal investigations officers, OCSs and Machakos county criminal investigations officer Benedict Kigen among other top cops in the county. “The essence of the party is to recognize our officers for job well done, nothing else. We have a small bite together with our colleagues and friends who always support us whenever we call them,” Mohammud said. Mohammud said the sixteen officers had been resourceful, resilient, efficient, team players, motivating and reliable during the course of their duties in 2022. He said they were awarded with appreciation letters, some token in cash and food for late Christmas to share with their loved ones, families, friends and relatives. Each of the officers was given a bail of wheat flour and two litres of cooking oil. "We recognise police officers to say thank you. All officers are working, but we make sure sometimes those who make more commitments, dedications than others are recognized by way of appreciations,” Mohammud said. “It’s a party, we appreciate your presence. We value you, everybody here. Each of these officers we have recognised today are going home with something small as a way of saying ‘thank you’ for good job,” Mohammud said. The event was attended by several officials from the Machakos county government, business community, clergy and members of the public. Among those feted were Machakos subcounty police commander Moss Ndhiwa who doubles as the chairperson of all subcounty police commanders in Machakos county and Athi River subcounty Critical Infrastructure Police Unit commander Mohamed Nur. "2022 I thank God, it wasn’t easy. We had national examinations twice alongside the general elections,” Mohammud said. "I remember I used to receive phone calls from everywhere, being told this side is this way. Every politician seeking votes, accusing one another, oh my campaign posters have been removed by so and so, but he/she hasn’t seen hence no evidence of the claims. "So, it wasn’t easy, you have to balance. We balanced and had successful elections,” Mohammud said. The police boss said the they had lots of problems during tallying of votes for the position of governor. “There were lots of problems, contestants hailing accusations of all manner against their opponents. We re-enforced including with GSU and sniff dogs and thank God the winner for position of governor was announced,” Mohammud said. He said since her election, Governor Wavinya Ndeti had been supportive to the National Police Service. “The governor has supported us since she got to the office, we appreciate her support,” Mohammud said. He said Machakos county government fueled police vehicles during the recent recruitment exercise of young men and women to the service in the county. "We are working closely with the county government and we appreciate, we don’t take that for granted,” Mohammud said. Also at the event was Simon Nzioka, an orphan sponsored by senior officers from the county to study at Machakos High School. He was accompanied by his ageing grandfather. “This is our boy, we take him to school. It’s the duty of OCS Machakos to take him to his grandfather’s home in Kangundo whenever schools close, while the OCS Kakuyuni takes him to school when schools re-open,” Mohammud said. He said they had cleared the boy’s school fees for the four–year secondary education course and his duty was just to study. The police boss said Ndhiwa had worked hard to ensure insecurity was suppressed in Machakos. Mohammud cited insecurity and rampage among Machakos University students that led to deaths of students and a police officer. Nur was recognised for resilience, dedication and exemplary administrative skills and relations with colleagues alongside guiding junior officers and molding them to become better in the service. Ndhiwa lauded Mohammud for good leadership. He said the county police boss was a good administrator. "I thank you for this first ever present when on my way home. You have done us so much, you are a trainer, united us as OCPDs, DCI, CIPU and OCS, you have trained all of us,” Ndhiwa said. “You have capacity built us, we are united in the county. Also brought us together as senior officers and raised money for the orphan’s school fees, this is our child,” Nhiwa said. Bunei told the officers to serve with dignity and humanity in line with police code of ethics. He, however, told the officers to protect lives of residents as they secure property. "People’s property have been secured already, what about lives? Why are we letting people drink illicit brew? We are killing our people, next generation,” Bunei said. Bunei issued a directive to all county police commanders to step up crackdown on illicit brew in their respective jurisdictions.