Social media and networking service Twitter has introduced a new policy for paid partnerships on its platform. “We understand that paid partnerships are an important part of the media ecosystem, and to that effect, we´ve made changes to help creators, agencies and brands alike leverage paid partnerships in a way that is transparent and meets regulatory standards,”  read part of the new terms. While through Twitter´s advertising services, tweets promoted are always labelled as ´promoted´. The social media platform claims that organic or non-promoted tweets may also be considered paid product placement, advertisements or endorsements. “Tweets that are part of a paid partnership posted as an organic tweet will require clear and prominent disclosures indicating the commercial nature of such content.” Content creators and users will now be required to use #ad in tweets that are for paid partnership or product placement. A tweet will be considered a paid partnership or an endorsement if: • A user, including a creator or brand, has been or may be compensated for a tweet (including in the form of money, gifts, loans of products, or other rewards or incentives) • A tweet is created as part of, or in connection with, a commercial relationship (such as a current or recent brand ambassador arrangement) • A tweet includes an affiliate link or discount code through which the user might receive some kind of benefit, incentive or reward. The new rules and guidelines that apply to paid partnerships may vary from country to country and content creators have been urged to follow all the changes in regulations in their country of residence. Users and content creators are also required to comply with all the applicable laws and regulations, including advertising laws, and where applicable, Federal Trade Commission regulations including the FTC´s guides concerning the use of endorsement and testimonials in advertising. The platform has included an option for other users to report a tweet which they believe might be an advertisement or paid partnership, but the content creator/brand has failed to include an appropriate disclosure. “A failure by users not to include appropriate disclosure in a clear and prominent way could result in enforcement actions.”