Vihiga senator Godfrey Osotsi says he will ensure residents within the county are receiving better services from the National Government and the County at large Osotsi says he will push the central government on the wall to ensure County residents get better service delivery. “I am not against the government. What I want is to keep the government on its toes to ensure it gives sober services to my people,” Osotsi said. “There is no point I will be at war with the head of state. What I want is for him to stop giving unwanted promises that he can’t deliver on time,” he added. Osotsi says the President should be realistic in what he is telling Kenyans and the promises he makes as well. "We in the opposition must keep the government in check and that should not be seen as if we are at war with the head of the state," he cited. He says the work for the opposition is to keep the government on spot to deliver their promise to voters. Osotsi said they have accepted they lost​ to​ Kenya Kwanza but that won't stop them from criticizing the government where it goes wrong. The lawmaker was speaking to Star via the phone while in Nairobi. Osotsi further said he will work hand in hand with Governor Wilber Ottichilo to ensure Vihiga County gets better service. He said the county has got enough resources to develop but much time has been wasted while battling court cases that had no value to locals. "This time round Governor, we are going to walk along this path of development together. Those petty issues we shall sit together and iron them out to ensure Vihiga gets what it deserves," Osotsi added. The lawmaker urged Members of the County Assembly (MCAs) to support him on oversight issues and also to support governor Ottichilo for development. Initially, Deputy Speaker Erick Odei had said in the previous assembly they were totally at war with governor Wilber Ottichilo, a move that crippled development in the area.​​ "Governor this time we are going to give you a humble time to serve the Vihiga people so that you leave your legacy as you have always said," Odei said.