It's Thursday morning and the opulence at the residence of former Education CS Prof George Magoha has been overshadowed by his demise. Everything has come to a standstill and the mood is palpable as you enter the compound. A few visitors who kept trickling in are conversing in low tones. The usual serenity in the neighbourhood that characterises the posh Lavington estate is also felt. An armed administration police officer has been placed at the gate to provide security. Right at the entrance to the living room is a large portrait of the towering giant- the former Education Cabinet Secretary on the table, a wreath and two condolences books for guests to pen their tribute messages. A large candle burns next to a cartoon-like Magoha portrait perhaps to signify that his memory still lives on and shines bright. One after the other the guest check in before they are ushered into the house where Magoha's wife Barbra, son Michael and other family members are held up. Among those who arrived at the home are Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli, Somaliland representative to Kenya Mohammed Ahmed, Machakos Health CEC Daniel Yumbya and Nairobi University vice-chancellor Stephen Kiama. In his tribute, Atwoli described Magoha as an astute and tough man in his work. Atwoli who addressed the press further described him as a strict educationist who at one point while serving as the Nairobi University vice chancellor vowed to eject his son from the university. "Magoha told me I don't want your son in this university and he meant it...he told me to come and take him to another university," he reminisced. Yumbya who worked together with Magoha at the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Council for 19 years remembered him for advancing health regulations. "All the time and especially whenever we would have cases of malpractices, Magoha would take it upon himself to ensure it is exhaustively addressed," he said. He said the growth of the KMPDC, which is now an icon agency in the region was due to Magoha's values. Kiama said Magoha loved the education and worked diligently and powerfully at the university. "We honour him as we mourn his life and even in death," he said.