Most women dream of turning their homes into tranquil, cosy and beautiful spaces. We have an innate desire to create not just a highly functional space but one that is aesthetically pleasing and calming as soon as we enter. That has been my own dream for the longest time. As my family takes baby steps to achieving our dream home, I realise that my dream will remain in the fantasy realm for a little bit longer. Having a growing baby means that my desires are replaced by desperate needs. I no longer crave aesthetics as much as I do functionality and safety. My little Curious George has managed to turn every little item in my house into a hazard. His current victim is a wooden box toy that he tries to step on to go absolutely nowhere. Every furniture piece is a mountain to be climbed, and every cabinet or drawer is a calling to be undone. As we speak, all my unmounted cabinets have been turned to face the wall. The drawers have been latched by the most hideous yet effective baby proofing locks. I rearrange his toys and organise his play area every time he goes to sleep, which means that for at least an hour during the day, I can see my carpet without toys strewn across the floors. Otherwise, for a good part of the day, my floors are covered with balls, cards, books and an assortment of toys. As we proceed to furnish our new home to suit our style and needs, my husband and I find ourselves rooting for functionality over style. For instance, we have taken a sudden liking to dark over light-coloured furniture. Dark colours will serve us best with our little one, who cannot sit still even when he is eating. Our neighbour gifted us a couple of cosy leather seats that I would never consider buying while I have a toddler. Luckily, furniture can be covered by custom-made slipcovers in different colours. My white chairs will remain in storage until my grey slipcovers arrive. It has taken us a long time to get to a place where we call home. I had a particular idea of how I wanted my home to look, but that image keeps moving further away from my present. Some families have managed to maintain their luxurious decor and style even with children, and I admire them from afar. My reality, however, is far from white sofas and tufted ottomans. As I watch my little man learn something new every day (including trashing the house), I realise that my dream for a perfectly decorated interior can wait because my baby can’t. If scattering his toys and finger painting on the furniture means he is happy, then that is all that matters.