Farmers in Limuru constituency, Kiambu have asked the government to employ more agricultural extension officers, to enlighten them on agribusiness. They say apart from large scale farmers who own large tracks of lands, most of them operate on small pieces of land. A farmer Joseph Njenga said nearly 80 per cent of them do not rely on the agricultural extension officers since they are not available. He spoke on Thursday after registering at a Limuru assistant chief’s office to buy the subsidised fertilisers once it's supplied by the government to local outlets. "Most people do not know if they really exist. We farm according to how we know; people plant, cultivate and sell their produce. We also learn from other farmers,” he said. “Years ago, we used to see agricultural officers, but these days we don't." Njenga said most of the active and upcoming farmers need a lot of education to produce quality for the market. “To venture in the local and international market, farmers need to be enlightened on how to add value to their crops, animals and products. This will enable them to target a better market and sustain it,” he said. The farmer however, lauded President William Ruto for assigning his Deputy Rigathi Gachagua to lead reforms in the milk, coffee and tea subsectors. Before election Gachagua had been passionately pushing for reforms in the coffee, tea, and milk subsectors. The DP used to say the sectors were under state capture, therefore, denying farmers better profits. The issue, Njenga said, had pushed farmers to start uprooting coffee and tea crops from their farms, to venture into real estate and other types of farming. Njenga and other farmers like Maina Gitau, Elizabeth Wanjiku and Monicah Njeri also asked Gachagua to work hard and end brokers and cartels who take advantage on the sale of coffee, tea and milk. "The time of brokers, cartels and monopoly is gone. The government must work hard and ensure that it is the farmers who make more money than the middlemen" he said. 