Africa Youth 3,000m silver medalist Debora Chemutai is keen to compete in the second edition of the Sirikwa Cross Country meet next month despite missing a place in Team Kenya for the world show in Bathurst, Australia. The Form Four student at Cheptonoi said she did not manage to make the cut into the Kenya Team for the World Cross Country Championships after finishing in 10th at the national trials last month at the Ruiru Prisons. “I did not run well because I was sick. I have since recovered and I am ready for the Sirikwa Classic Cross Country meeting in Eldoret,” said Chemutai after winning the AK Central Rift meet over the weekend at Lobo Village in Kapseret, Uasin Gishu County. Sirikwa Classic, which was formerly the Agnes Tirop Memorial cross-country meeting, is set for February 4 in Eldoret. The event will be the last cross-country meeting before the World Cross Country Championships on February 18 in Bathurst, Australia. Chemutai, who has specialized in 3,000m and 5,000m races on the track, said the win at the Central Rift has inspired her to run well in the subsequent events. “Winning here today was a motivation for me because I have not had many races. I won silver in 3,000m at Africa Youth in Ivory Coast before missing out on the Africa cross-country event due to coronavirus,” she said. She also missed to compete for the country at the World Under 20 Championships in Cali, Colombia, and the 2021 edition in Nairobi, Kenya. “I missed both the 2021 and 2022 World Under 20 Championships after finishing third at the national trials on both occasions in the 3,000m and 5,000m respectively,” she said. “I believe competing at the Sirikwa meeting will be key for me after missing out on the Bathurst trip. Considering we will use the same course during the Sirikwa cross country, I believe it will be an added advantage for me,” she narrated. Apart from her accolades, she was also the pacesetter for 5,000m at the Kip Keino Classic, where Ethiopian Girmawit Gibrzihair won the race in 14:49.57. “Right now, my target is to train well and win the title during Sirikwa race on the home soil,” she said.