Human rights lobby group Muslim for Human Rights (Muhuri) will now lead peace talks between parents and the management board of Nyali Primary School in Mombasa. A meeting has been scheduled at the school compound on Monday between parents’ representatives, the school’s board of management and the Nyali District Peace Committee (DPC) members alongside Muhuri officials. Parents and stakeholders have been on a collision path with the school’s board after the board appointed a new deputy principal and assigned him the duties of acting principal. Parents have been raising issues over how the current 14-member board has been running the school, alleging massive embezzlement of funds. Despite heavy police presence, parents stormed the school again on Friday morning to hand over a petition demanding a special general meeting with the board. Officers from the nearby Nyali Police Station led by area OCPD Daniel Mumasaba responded swiftly to ensure peace prevailed. At one point, the acting principal in question, Toney Ogunga, locked himself inside his office as the OCPD begged to see him for a talk. Last Tuesday, the parents disrupted learning after they stormed the school to evict the Ogunga, whom they said was hired illegally. “This matter must be solved amicably. The board has to sit down and hear complaints from the parents because this school belongs to the parents,” said Muhuri chairman Khelef Khalifa. “We wrote to the board chair informing him that Muhuri was ready to intervene and spearhead dialogue between the board and the parents, but we are yet to get any response.” Khalifa alluded to the fact that only a few board members have attempted to visit the school since the row began, adding that it demonstrates their unwillingness to resolve the matter. He added that the school needs serious auditing. “I am an interested party in this school. I am a member, and my children and grandchildren go to this school,” said Khalifa “I called the chairman to discuss the matter and asked him to come and address the issue, but not even a single board member has visited the school. Their silence means they don’t care; that is very wrong.” A row has been brewing over the recruitment of a new principal after the former Principal exited the school last year. The school BOM appointed one of the two deputies Omar Babu as the acting Principal. However, attempts by the board to recruit a new principal were thwarted after a section of members went to court to block the process, alleging it needed to be more open and competitive as required. Mombasa High Court judge lady justice O.A Sewe on July 28, 2022, issued conservatory orders halting the process until the matter is heard and determined. Aliya Khalil, a parent at the school, said that their efforts to reach the board to call for a meeting have been futile as their letters have been unanswered. She said that the board has been running the school as their personal property without involving the parents, who are the actual owners. The Nyali school is registered under the Societies Act and is owned by The Mombasa Parents Club. “We don’t understand what is going on at the school, teachers get fired without any explanation, and the board has refused to listen to us. We demand changes in the school,” said Khalil. Khalil said school fees have been increasing without reason, saying they increased by 10 per cent this year. “Our children are learning in an impoverished environment. If you look at the pool, the playing field and even the kitchen, they are all in a bad state,” Khali said. She further alleged that the board had embezzled the club’s funds, amounting to over Sh40 million. The current board’s tenure ended in 2019, and no election has been conducted since then. Speaking to Star on the phone, the board chair Benjamin Gitonga denied all allegations against the board. Gitonga said that parents had been involved in all the school affairs, saying that the only thing that has yet to happen is the annual general meeting because of a court order after parents filed to stop the session. “The parents are fully aware of what is happening in the school. Other meetings, like class meetings, have been going on. We even update them through the annual circular, and all information is on the school’s website,” said Gitonga. Gitonga said that the AGM parents have been calling for cannot take place unless the matter in court is removed. The meeting, he said, was to happen last year, but they received a court order a day before the meeting. He also refuted allegations that the board had embezzled money, saying it was just propaganda. “The board has competent people diligently running the school on behalf of the parents. We have audited reports for every financial year. You can get them from the website if you check,” he said.