The need to include the youth in Kenya Kwanza appointments saw Transport and Roads Cabinet Secretary name young people to Kenya Ports Authority Board. Of the five new appointments made by Murkomen to the influential board, three are young people below 40 years. The move affirms deliberate efforts by President Ruto's administration to mentor the youth. Musa Osman, Emanuel Kibet and Caroline Njoki Maina, who were appointed to the KPA board by Murkomen, are aged 38, 32, and 26 respectively. This is the first time young people are securing top parastatal jobs, ending decades of exclusion of the youth at boards which were previously reserved for retirees. Other appointments made via a Gazette Notice dated January 20, 2023 were Lucas Maitha and Consolata Lusweti. The members will serve for a period of 3 years, with effect from  January 23, 2023. Kibeti is currently serving as the Secretary to the Tribunal that was formed by President Ruto to investigate the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commissioners. He was among lawyers operating outside Nairobi that dominated President Ruto's tribunal list. Kibet has worked at the H & K Law advocates where he was responsible for litigation and Dispute Resolution and has also worked as an Associate at CM advocates where he drafted litigation pleadings. The youthful lawyer has also worked as an associate at the Bowry & Company advocates where he undertook research on intricate legal issues and also served in the same capacity at the Igeria & Ngugi advocates. The Moi University School of law graduate has previously served as a legal assistant at the Standard Group and also as a Rapporteur at the Royal Danish Embassy in Kenya. Murkomen revoked the appointment of Lydia Yator, Stephen Gichuhi Gichohi, Conrad Thorpe, Farida Abdalla Sud and Nilfat Kassim Ali. This development comes just days after CS Murkomen appointed former Kinangop MP Benjamin Dalu Tayari as the new Chairperson of the Board of Directors of KPA, taking over from Gen (Rtd) Joseph Kibwana. 