Shujaa have been placed in tough pool for the Sydney sevens when thy face powerhouses New Zealand, South Africa, Uruguay next weekend in Pool 'B'. Kenya bagged sevens points from the Hamilton Sevens over the weekend but will have to step up a gear if they harbour ambitions of playing in the main cup quarters. Skipper Nelson Oyoo said the momentum gained by winning two matches on Sunday and garnering the seven points will be vital in facing powerhouses New Zealand and South Africa Down Under. "Performance-wise, the boys are improving and I believe if we can minimise our error rate then we can be in contention for the last eight,” added Oyoo. Argentina winners in Hamilton top Pool 'A' will face Australia, Great Britain and Canada. Pool 'C' will see USA, Ireland, Samoa and Spain battle it out while France, Fiji, Tonga and Japan complete Pool 'D'. Kenya had a mixed outing in Hamilton losing all three matches in the pool phase on Saturday going down 31-5 to Samoa 21-7 to Fiji and 26-21 to France to drop to the classification matches on Sunday. The team responded by first beating Canada 21-5 with Edmund Anya scoring the opening try and Tony Omondi converting for a 7-0 lead . The North Americans regrouped with Brock Webster scoring an unconverted try to cut the gap to 7-5 at the interval. On resumption, Shujaa put the game beyond reach for the Canadians with Willy Ambaka and George Ooro scoring a try each with Omondi slotting home the conversions to give Kenya their first win. In the semifinal, Shujaa put Tonga to the sword with a clinical display, winning 33-19. Alvin Otieno got the opener with Tony Omondi converted for a 7-0 lead. The Pacific Islanders levelled matters through Kyren Tamoufelu, who scroed and converted a try. Skipper Nelson Oyoo and Edmund Anya scored two well-taken tries to give Shujaa a 19-7 lead at the interval. On resumption, Oyoo scored his second with Ooro putting the game beyond reach for the Tongans with Omondi making no mistake with the conversions for a 33-7 advantage. Sioeli Filmoehala scored a consolation for Tonga at the death. Kenya, however, came unstuck in the final when thy lost to Samoa 26-5. Otieno gave Kenya the perfect start but the slick Pacific Islanders were too strong scoring four tries.