Kiambu Governor Kimani Wamatangi has in the last three months been focusing on transforming the healthcare system. In his pre-election manifesto, he promised to improve health for all residents, particularly maternal and child healthcare services. It is one of his five pillars that will guide the county’s growth. In an impromptu visit to Kiambu Level 5 Hospital, Wamatangi said he will ensure the hospital has beds, stretchers and wheelchairs which are in shortage. “We need to upscale our services through proper treatment and should even come out and set a turnaround time parameter to serve patients quickly,” he told the hospital management. During the visit some patients and residents told him that they were not being issued with medicine but were being asked to purchase from outside. But the governor assured residents that all public hospitals will be fully stocked with the needed drugs to ensure that patients were not sent to procure the same from private entities. “I do not want to hear patients being asked to buy medication from outside and I would also not want to hear a patient being asked to pay any money before being attended by the doctor," Wamatangi said. The governor said the county has in the recent past engaged the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority to ensure supply of medicine to all county hospitals. During the partnership agreement at the beginning of the month, the governor flagged off lorries ferrying medicine worth Sh60 million for distribution to county hospitals. When Wamatangi visited Kiambu Level 5 Hospital, the management highlighted some of the challenges affecting the facility, including supplies, finance and staffing. However the staff at the maternity wing dismissed reports appearing in social media circles that fatality rates in infants was alarming. "Since the 16th of this month to date, we have not reported any death of a newborn in our maternity wing where we attend to around 100 mothers,” the head of the wing said. The official said they were overwhelmed as they operate on a ratio of 1:50 and this leaves the nurses burnt out and fatigued. Different department heads aired their concerns to the governor and asked his administration to help solve some of the challenges affecting the hospital. They said despite the challenges and staffing, they do not turn away any patients or serve all that visit the hospital. Wamatangi promised that his administration will work round the clock to come up with better ways of communication so that the hospital's image remains positive. The governor promised to give special attention to Gatundu and Thika level 5 hospitals and others to ensure residents get the best service they deserve. Governor Wamatangi last month launched NHIF mass registration drive to provide affordable, accessible and sustainable medical cover for residents. The programme is targeting to register one million people.