Security agencies will help plant 10 million trees in the country in an effort to conserve the environment. President William Ruto said the security service comprising the military, police and other agencies will partner with the Nairobi government on the exercise. He said the Ministry of Environment and Kenya Forestry Services will be roped in for the planting exercise. The President spoke at the passing out parade of 1,995 recruits at the Administration Police Training College in Embakasi after nine months training. "I want you when you leave here and join your families for one month leave to plant at least 30 trees each. Please pass this message to the police recruits who graduated at Kiganjo yesterday [Tuesday] and the GSU ones who will graduate tomorrow [Thursday], "Ruto told the graduates. He also directed the college to ensure that the new recruits who will be recruited this year begin by planting trees at the college. Ruto said the planting of the trees will majorly be done in Eastlands part of the city. At the same time, Ruto urged Kenyans to respect all calibre of legitimate work that people do. "Even in the Bible, Paul told Timothy not to allow anybody to underlook his youthfulness. In this country, beginning with me, I will respect any work that one does provided it is legit," added Ruto. Ruto said the government will ensure that it supports police by equipping them with modern tools so that they can fight the changing crime pattern due to technological advancement. He said his government will ensure police have better houses, through the affordable housing project. "Through the task force I formed recently to look into the welfare of police and prison officers, a clear road map will be charted on how your welfare and terms of employment will be looked into," Ruto said. He said during his tenure police will be delinked from being used in political activities, saying he had done this through removing their budget allocation from the Office of the President and for it to be handled directly by the office of the Inspector General of police. On civil strife in the East African region, Ruto said Kenya will use all the opportunities to advocate peace and amicable solutions by warring groups. Ruto disclosed that he had given firm instructions to Interior CS Kithure Kindiki to ensure police officers involved in the fight against cattle rustling and banditry in different parts of the country are well supported. Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua said police will not be used in the management of politics by the current administration. He said police have a clear duty to maintain law and order. "When it comes to politics, the President has his team led by me as the general and you police will not be used by politicians to do politics, but we want you to arrest criminals and ensure Kenyans' properties are safe,” Gachagua said. He said he was impressed by the training that the recruits underwent through their display of parade which he said 32 years ago he was in the same parade when he passed out as a DO. Inspector General of police Japhet Koome said police will live up to their oath of serving all Kenyans and foreigners living in the country with equality without fear or favour and regardless of one's status. Among those present were Nairobi Governor Johnson Sakaja, Embakasi East MP Babu Owino, Interior PS Raymond Omollo, AP boss Noor Gabow and his Kenya police counterpart Edward Mbugua, among others.