When it comes to that time of the month for women, it can be a touchy subject. For years, it was considered taboo to speak about menstruation. Even now, not many people (women included) can speak openly about their periods, which makes it hard to have important conversations about the topic. For example, what are the major dos and don'ts when you are on your period? If you were lucky enough to have a good talk with your mother or older sister or even your father about your time of the month (when you hit puberty), chances are that you go some very vital tips to help you manoeuvre it. However, if you 'don't play with boys anymore!' was one of the biggest tips you got, then here are some others to remember: Dos: 1. Move. When you are on your period, it is very easy to hear your body telling you to stay in bed all day and not move a muscle. But it is very important to move and even do some gentle exercises. According to the International Planned Parenthood Federation, you can move your body through swimming, yoga or walking. Saying put makes it hard for blood to continue circulating and if you are prone to menstrual cramps, will most likely increase them. 2. Stay hydrated. Another important tip to remember is to stay hydrated by drinking plenty of water. Water helps with blood circulation so make sure you give your body as much water as it needs. 3. Use a hot water bottle. A versatile thing to have during your period is a hot water bottle to help reduce lower abdominal pain. In case you also get back pain during your period, you can use the bottle on your lower back. 4. Tack over-the-counter medication. There is no shame in alleviating your period cramps and aches using medication. You want to lessen the discomfort of menstruation as much as possible. Just make sure that you take the medication as prescribed by a pharmacist or a physician and do not self-prescribe or overdose. 5. Eat some dark chocolate. Dark chocolate, according to IPPF, has been found to help relax muscles and ease aches probably due to the rich magnesium in it. Studies suggest that eating between 40–120 grams of dark chocolate daily during your period may help reduce pain. 6. Have an orgasm. An orgasm causes blood to rush to the uterus and helps to relieve cramps. The endorphins one gets after an orgasm also help to relieve stress and enhance relaxation. Perhaps you could try to partake in the infamous period sex (with some precaution) and have yourself an orgasm. 7. Get plenty of sleep. IPPF advises that you get enough sleep so your body can have enough time to recuperate. Get at least eight hours of sleep when you are on your period and rest when your body tells you to. That way, you can get rid of the exhaustion that comes with your body exerting on your period. Don'ts: 1. Take too much caffeine, salt and processed foods. IPPF says that these foods may cause bloating, which does not go well with menstrual cramps. They recommend reducing the intake of foods with too much salt and not drinking too many caffeinated drinks including coffee. Processed foods like sugary and sweetened foods should also be taken in moderation. 2. Forget to shower. This one is a no-brainer! Shower, take as many baths as you wish and make sure you stay fresh and clean. Also, warm baths and showers can help lessen period cramps in case you don't have a hot water bottle. But make sure you shower every day.