Vihiga Queens' title defence received a major blow after losing 4-1 to Thika Queens in the Women's Premier League match at Thika Stadium on Sunday. Wendy Achieng and Christine Kachali scored a brace each to help the former champions cruise to victory. A defensive mix-up saw Thika concede an own goal. It was the first time Vihiga conceded this season but worse still against their fiercest rivals.  It was also Vihiga's heaviest defeat in more than two years. The four-time champions Vihiga played out a goalless draw against Bunyore Starlets in a previous encounter. Since losing the trio of  Tereza Engesha, Topista Situma and Jentrix Shikangwa, Vihiga's attack look toothless. Janet Moraa, Anita Namata and Marende Ongachi failed to sparkle. Achieng's double saw her become the league's top scorer with six goals. Elsewhere, Kisumu All Starlets recovered from two losses to claim a point in the 1-1 draw against Gaspo Women FC at the Moi Stadium, Kisumu. Treazer Manyala's superb opener was canceled out by Jackline  Nabangala's goal. Despite conceding, Kisumu's intriguing and pressing game saw them equalise in added time to arrest their poor run. Kisumu coach Juma Said noted: "It was important to get a result considering we didn't do well in our last two matches. Even after going down 1-0, we had time to make amends. We were the better team in the second half. Our wastefulness in front of the goal haunted us but there's room for improvement." Kisumu lost 2-1 and 2-0 against Ulinzi Starlets and Vihiga respectively before the Gaspo duel. "A tactical approach changed everything. We need to play boldly going forward," added Juma. Defensive midfielder Cynthia Akinyi is set for a spell on the sidelines after suffering a knee injury according to Juma. "It doesn't look good. Akinyi could be out for at least two months. She's a dependable player but we will have to cope without her for a while." Elsewhere, Trans Nzoia Falcons beat Kayole Starlets 4-0. Joyce Makhungu scored twice while Elizabeth Wafula and Leah Le scored a goal apiece.