An election observation group has called on President William Ruto to forgive the dissenting IEBC commissioners who disowned his victory. PIMAC International Observer urged the president to continue leading the country in initiatives and efforts of reconciliation and in uniting Kenyans. The group said the funds being used to try the Cherera Four can be channeled towards other national initiatives. “The President can consider forgiving the four commissioners and instead use the money used in inquiring into their 2022 electoral process activities to help needy families stricken with hunger and poverty.” They said the president can consider having a special meeting with the four commissioners to hear their side of the story and then consider forgiving them. "The President and Her Excellency Mama Rachel Ruto, the first lady of Kenya, are religious and God-fearing,” they said. They called on all spiritual leaders in Kenya to support them in calling on the Presidency to lead Kenyans in forgiving the commissioners. Former vice chair Juliana Cherera led fellow commissioners who have all since resigned in disowning the presidential results on August 15, 2022. They said they could not own the results since the final phase of their verification was opaque. Of the four, only Irene Masit is yet to resign but she's facing a commission of inquiry which was appointed by the president. The others, Cherera, Francis Wanderi and Justus Nyang'aya choose to resign. The observer group called on the commissioners to also consider asking Kenyans and the Presidency for forgiveness. “IEBC and stakeholders should now focus on the 2027 election cycle,” they said. They said that Ruto should use his experience in selecting the right  Chairperson of IEBC and focus on building a unified nation. “We need more reconciliation and unity activities in bringing the country together as one people, one nation, creating employment, bringing food on the table, bringing money in the pocket, improving our economy,” they said. They said we should use lessons learnt in the 2022 Presidential elections to move the country forward and continue investing more resources in voter civic education for the new cycle, 2027 elections.