President William Ruto has told Kenyans not to be worried by opposition chief Raila Odinga's threats as he will 'easily fix him'. Ruto maintained his administration will not succumb to blackmail by the opposition saying he will bring impunity to an end. "We are going to bring impunity to a stop in Kenya . Don't be threatened, they will be surprised how we will fix them," Ruto said. Ruto, rubbished the opposition's demands to have the servers opened to ascertain who won the August 9 presidential election saying that had been done long ago by the electoral commission. “I have heard them say that they want the servers opened, I don't think they live in this country, Chebukati and the IEBC opened the servers long ago,” Ruto said. “Form 34As from each polling station are in the portal, Form 34Bs are in the portal, Form 34C are in the portal, I am wondering which server they want to be opened.” Raila has demanded that the IEBC servers be opened saying he had beaten President Ruto in last year's polls. Ruto said that the Azimio coalition is wasting time through their threats insisting he was validly elected as President by Kenyans. “Look for a different person to threaten. I was elected by Kenyans in broad daylight. For you, you had the system, the deep state and the government, but we defeated you,” Ruto said. Speaking during the funeral of Trade Cabinet Secretary Moses Kuria's sister, Ruto vowed to remain focused and serve all Kenyans irrespective of their political affiliation. “The government of Kenya is not going to be blackmailed to serve the interests of a few people, their families and their businesses, that will not work, we are going to serve the people of Kenya,” Ruto said. The President said he had keenly studied opposition's political tactics and concluded that they have never pushed for the interests of Kenyans, but 'family and business'. The President said those thinking that they can arm-twist him into giving in to a share of government or handshake are 'dreaming'. “They are not doing protests for the benefit of Kenyans, but their families and their businesses. That will not work. The concession I am going to make is that every Kenyan, irrespective how they voted, the government of Kenya is going to serve them,” he said.