KCB are signing young players as part of the long-term strategy to remodel the team to meet international professional standards. The Ruaraka-based side broke the bank in 2020 to sign Mercy Moim, Edith Wisa, and Sharon Chepchumba in a bid to turn around their fortunes but that is bound to change if the latest move is anything to go by. Last week, Faith Cherotich, Elizabeth Mariana and Pauline Chemutai from Kwanthanze Secondary School joined Japheth Munala-led outfit as outside hitter  Juliana Namutira was snapped from KDF. The trio from Kwanthanze are all below 20 years. "We want to invest in fresh talent other than going for ready-made players. The talent we have acquired has what it takes to excel and I believe by 2024, our five-year strategic plan will start to bear fruits," said the technical director Paul Bitok. "Without disrespect, Moim and Wisa have conquered the courts for more than a decade. We would like to have a very smooth transition even though we believe the senior players still have something to offer. To lift the standards of KCB immediately was to sign big names but that has changed as we look at the bigger picture." Bitok, who enjoyed a decade stint as Rwanda's national coach, said he will utilise his experience and ensure his new-look team is ready for the African Club Championship later this year. "We are focused on the bigger picture of defending the Africa Club Championship. Namutira will definitely replace Chepchumba but we are also going to push others in training for them to meet the championship standards by the time the annual tourney serves off." KCB beat Egypt's Al Ahly 3-1 in the final last year to reclaim the title they last won in 2007. On Sunday, KCB's hopes of winning the Kenya Volleyball Federation League title went up in smoke after Kenya Pipeline pipped them 3-1 to be crowned champions. "We want the athletes to earn a living from their talent.  With my experience working with players in Rwanda, two months will be enough for the juniors to polish up their game," Bitok finalised. 