Kenya Pipeline were on Sunday crowned the Kenya Volleyball Federation Women’s League champions after beating Kenya Commercial Bank 3-1 in the play-offs at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani Indoor Arena on Sunday. Despite going down 25-18 in the first set, the Oil Merchants recovered from the early setback to win the next consecutive sets 25-22, 25-19 and 26-24. Pipeline reclaimed the title they last won in 2017. They also ended the season unbeaten, to mark a five-star performance from the Paul Gitau-coached side. Gitau said: “I am happy we won the title even though my team didn’t play well. It is a big motivation for us after the hard work we have put in in the last two years.” “I told my girls not to panic after losing the first set. We studied them in previous matches and we knew they normally utilise all their energy to win the first set. From the second set onwards, we knew it was our turn to change the result.” “We now look forward to the Africa Club Championships. There’ll be no time to rest since the new season is starting soon.” KCB captain Edith Wisa said the match could have gone either way but challenged the team to become even better when the new season serves off next month. “We were prepared physically and mentally because we knew Pipeline were a quality opponent. They deserve the win since they were the better side.” Wisah, who guided KCB to the African Club Championships glory in June last year in Tunisia, singled out Mariam Musa for praise saying: “She gave a good account of herself and will be a big player for us in the coming years considering this was her first time in the playoffs.” In deed, KCB are in transition. Last week, they unveiled four new players — three from Kwanthanze Secondary School. Pipeline’s Pamela Adhiambo won the Most Valuable Player award. Sherleen Maywa of KCB was feted the best server while DCI’s left attacker, Sarah Namisi, bagged the best attacker award. Rose Magoi and Gladys Ekaru both of Pipeline, were best setter and blocker respectively. Veteran Prisons captain Braxides Agala was crowned best receiver. Kenya Prisons edged out DCI 3-2 to win a five-set third-place playoff thriller. DCI won the first set 25-18 before Prisons drew back level 30-28. DCI led 15-12 in the third set but a power blackout forced play to stop for 15 minutes. Both sides tied at 21-21 but a tactical change allowed the sleuths to grab it 25-21. Prisons made it 2-2 with a resounding 25-18 fourth set victory and had the last laugh with a 15-12 win in the decider.