Siaya Governor James Orengo on Saturday asked President William Ruto to work with Azimio leader Raila Odinga. Orengo was speaking in Asembo during the homecoming ceremony of ICT CS Eliud Owalo. "Mr President, I ask you, not in the spirit of the handshake, but in the spirit of togetherness. I urge you to sit together on the table of brotherhood with your brother Raila Amolo Odinga." The governor said that the elections are over and the country needs to be united moving forward. He reminded the President of their time in the Opposition when he (Ruto) was relentless in defending Raila, alias Agwambo. Orengo informed Ruto that Raila had spoken to him and welcomed him to his home county, Siaya. He pointed out that the leaders in both the Opposition and the government had, at some point, worked together. Orengo reiterated that the move, if taken, will ensure that the nation is not divided. "For the good of Kenyans, I urge you that we should come together on the table of brotherhood to move together as a nation, so that we don't divide people." Ruto and Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua have since the onset of the campaign period afirmed that their would be no handshake with Raila under whatever circumstances. The leaders, who beat Raila at the August polls, have however insisted that they will ensure the ODM leader is well taken care of in his capacity as the Opposition leader. "And I have worked with you President Ruto. I know when you stand for something," Orengo said, adding that he has known Ruto to be a "big fighter". Orengo revealed that he had spoken to Raila about Ruto's visit to Nyanza and he had welcomed the President to the the region. "He said that I should pass you his word of welcome, na ujisikie uko nyumbani," he said. The President is traversing the Nyanza region on a two-day development tour which started on Friday in Homa Bay county. On Friday, Ruto was received by Governor Gladys Wanga and other leaders in Homa Bay town. On Friday evening, he held a meeting at the Kisumu State Lodge with leaders from the region.