The Turkana government has received a donation of essential drugs worth Sh5 million from United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. Governor Jeremiah Lomorukai on Monday received the donation of essential drugs to boost healthcare in facilities. Lomoruki said the drugs worth a total of Sh5 million will be distributed across the health facilities. "We, as the county government, are ready to provide the necessary support to UNHCR as it carries out its activities that benefit the refugees and the host community," Lomorukai stated. He emphasized on the importance of coordination among partners, which falls under the mandate of Deputy Governor John Erus. Erus said he has the responsibility to coordinate development partnerships and resource mobilization coordination, adding that the county would soon meet with partners to discuss, formulate, and agree on a framework of engagement. Nicolas Kaburaburyo, head of Kakuma suboffice, expressed appreciation for the good collaboration with the county health department. “The organisation will soon finalise an MoU on National Health Insurance Fund accreditation for refugees and 1,500 vulnerable families of the host community,” Kaburaburyo said. Governor Lomorukai urged partners to support community health volunteers, who play a key role in the global health agenda towards preventive health. The donation of drugs comes after the county procured medical supplies worth Sh76 million to the health facilities. Health executive Anthony Apalia flagged off the medical supplies to be distributed to the 227 health facilities across the county, including Lodwar County Referral Hospital. “This consignment, supplied by Mission for Essential Drugs and Supplies, comes after the distribution of medical supplies worth Sh65 million from the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority in October,” he said. Apalia said the MEDS consignment was meant to fill the 193 items that were not supplied by Kemsa. The supplies include drugs such as paracetamol and antibiotics as well as non-pharmaceuticals, medical devices and equipment. He cautioned those who seek to steal the medical supplies for sale, including the county staff, that the county government would not hesitate to take legal action against them. He added that the procurement of medical supplies was in-line with the governor’s promise to ensure Turkana residents get high quality healthcare. Edited by Eliud Kibii 