National Assembly Speaker Moses Wetang'ula has formed a team of lawyers from among the MPs to defend Parliament in the corridors of justice. This comes after President William Ruto urged state agencies to stop taking each other to court. Wetang'ula said the team of senior and seasoned lawyers will give pro bono services so as to help Parliament cut the cost of litigation. He spoke on the first day of the Post Election Seminar for MPs in Mombasa organized by the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association. The team consists of lawyer MPs Otiende Amollo, Sylvanus Osoro, Peter Kaluma, Benson Makali, and Robert Mbui, among others. "These will help us constantly deal with issues that emerge," said Wetang'ula. He said the team will contain a group of people who have a habit of running to court to block the work of the assembly thus slowing down the work of Parliament. He noted that the main borne of contention with the litigants have always been violations of the constitution. To avoid such litigations, he told the MPs to ensure all they discuss and come up with in Parliament is anchored in law. "These issues must be put to rest by ring-fencing matter in law. Because the boogeyman is always constitutionality of the laws," said the Speaker. He said an example is the NG-CDF matter that rights bodies like Muslims for Human Rights insist must be abolished after a court ruled that it is unconstitutional. President Ruto said such matters are usually amplified by litigants who benefit from the court processes which usually take long to determine. He said the government loses a lot of money on litigation fees especially when government agencies take each other to court. "The only beneficiaries of these processes are the ones that the Speaker talked about (vexatious litigants)," said Ruto. The President said there will always be disputes but the solution is not to always be taking matters to the Judiciary but to always find amicable ways of resolving the disputes. "If Parliament has powers to act like a court, how then can one court take another court to court? Let us resolve our issues within Parliament," Ruto said.