Twenty patients are receiving treatment for bilharzia in Kisumu following a surge in cases in the area. Kisumu Medical Services, Public Health and Sanitation executive Dr Gregory Ganda said the cases were confirmed at Singida and Ogenya beaches in Nyando. "There were community members found with complaints of passing blood in urine, blood in stool, distended abdomen, general body weakness and discomfort during passage of urine," he said. Ganda said samples were taken from affected individuals for analysis, and laboratory findings confirmed it was bilharzia. Twenty people, he said, have commenced treatment, adding that an active case search for those who meet the case definition is underway. "Community health workers have been notified to begin a door-to-door visit of households in search of members who could be having similar health conditions so they can get investigated and treated," he said. The county government, he said, has stocked adequate medication for bilharzia to handle any additional cases that may be reported. Ganda asked residents who live along the shores of Lake Victoria and flood-prone areas who present symptoms of the disease to seek medical assistance. As a long-term measure to tame the parasitic disease, Dr Ganda disclosed that the Ministry of Health, in collaboration with the county health department, will conduct a mass drug administration for bilharzia this year if results from a recent survey indicate a high disease burden. "The survey, carried out in November 2022, whose results have not been finalised, took samples from across the county for analysis to find out the level of the disease burden. We shall inform the public when the results are finalised," he said. According to WHO guidelines, in the event the testing results show more than 10 per cent of the population have the disease, then everyone in the area must be given drugs, but if it is less than 10 per cent, then the drug will be administered only to those with symptoms. Bilharzia is one of the neglected tropical diseases found in Western Kenya. The major source of infection is Lake Victoria, but there is evidence of inland transmission, especially in informal settlements. The worms causing the disease are ingested when people consume infected water and food, inappropriate hygiene, eating undercooked meat and get into contact with germ infected surfaces.