The Ministry of Health has announced plans to transform Mwai Kibaki Teaching and Referral Hospital in Nyeri to a fully-fledged level 6 facility. The 350-bed facility was initially launched in 2019 as Othaya Level VI Hospital before the name was changed to KNH Othaya Annex. It was again renamed Mwai Kibaki Teaching and Referral Hospital in April last year in honour of the late President. The hospital is managed as a branch of Kenyatta National Hospital, with Dr Evanson Kamuri as the CEO. Health CS Susan Wafula on Monday said plans are underway to set up a multi-agency team that will help in the transitioning of the hospital. “This hospital is in the right path to becoming a level six facility,” CS Wafula said. “However, there is need to have dialysis, MRI and CT scan services as well as improve the health workforce for it to reach the standard of a level 6 hospital,” she added. The hospital is mandated to receive patients on referral for specialized healthcare, facilitate training for health and allied professions and conduct research to inform planning, innovation and policy. The CS has, however, noted that the facility, which serves the larger Mt Kenya region, will serve purely as a referral except during emergencies and not as a first point of treatment. The hospital was established by President Mwai Kibaki in 2010 to decongest KNH. It was opened in 2019 after stalling for several years. The facility serves residents of Nyeri and surrounding counties of Embu, Nyandarua, Laikipia, Tharaka Nithi, Meru, Isiolo, Samburu, Kirinyaga, Murang'a and Marsabit. The CS further called on the management of the hospital to fast track the digitisation and automation of services offered for easier access. “The government wants to serve you and this service starts at the community level. I want to urge residents of Nyeri county to first seek treatment at the dispensaries and level 3 and 4 hospitals available. It is only then that one can be referred to this facility,” CS Wafula said. Health Standards and Professional Management PS Josephine Mburu also urged area residents to compliment the lower level facilities first before visiting the  referral hospital. Mburu noted that plans are underway to ensure residents are soon able to use NHIF cards to access services at the hospital. Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga pledged to work closely with the ministry as his administration reviews the status of health in the county and what needs to be done to ensure seamless delivery of healthcare services. The facility is projected to become a centre of excellence in non-communicable diseases management, especially in diabetes, cancer, renal and cardiovascular diseases, which bear the greatest disease burden in the region. The hospital is well-equipped in the operating theatre, theatre, ICU and the maternity wing with Dedan Kimathi University of Technology expected to use the facility as their teaching hospital. The hospital's morgue with a 250-body capacity began operations in May last year. Before its completion, residents were compelled to take bodies to facilities outside the constituency. Other facilities that are in operation include the oxygen plant, one of the biggest in the country, with a capacity to generate 2.6 million litres of oxygen per day with a backup capacity of the same. Edited by EKibii