Rising German star Alexandra Försterling is among young players expected at this year’s Ladies European Tour (LET) Magical Kenya Ladies Open. Försterling ended the Final Qualifier of LET Qualifying-School as a joint-winner, alongside compatriot Polly Mack with a total 15-under-par. The 23-year-old tops the list of Q-School invitees to the season-opening leg, to be played for the third year running over the par-73 Baobab Course at the Vipingo Ridge in Kenya’s North Coast in the first week of February. Försterling played in two LET events in last year’s summer, finishing T17 at the Big Green Egg Open and T4 at the VP Bank Swiss Ladies Open, and the German is hoping to make her presence felt in the 2023 season starting with the 72-hole -four round stroke-play extravaganza in Kenya. Forsterling had a great senior season at Arizona State that saw her rise from No. 103 to No.5 in the rankings, a 95.15 percent improvement. The native of Berlin, Germany, recorded seven top-10 finishes and helped ASU advance to the NCAA Championship. Among the notable top-20 Q-School names invited for the third edition of the Kenyan round are Thailand’s Trichat Cheenglab,  Emma Spitz of Austria, Gabriela Ruffels of Australia, Kirsten Rudgeley (AUS), Czech Republic’s Tereza Melecka. Others are the Norwegian duo of Maiken Bing Paulsen and Madelene Stavnar, Spain’s Paz Marfa Sans, Swede Linnea Johansson, Lea Anne Bramwell of Wales, Yuri Onishi of Japan and Alessandra Fanali of Italy. The 2023 global schedule will take the LET series to 21 different countries, and will culminate with the Andalucía Costa del Sol Open de España at Real Club de Golf Las Brisas, Marbella, where the winner of the Race to Costa del Sol will be crowned. Försterling told the LET website late last year: “It means a lot to get my LET card. I’m extremely excited for the next season (2023) and I can’t wait for all of the tournaments. I can’t wait to get started!” This year’s MKLO will offer the players a prize fund of €300,000 (Sh39million). The $5 million Aramco Saudi Ladies International presented by Public Investment Fund will present the biggest purse outside the majors. A total of 12 tournaments will feature prize funds of at least $1 million, including the newly unveiled La Sella Open while the Lalla Meryem Cup and Helsingborg Open return to the 2023 schedule. The LET is expanding women’s golf globally in 2023 and its players will compete for at least €35 million, a record-breaking total prize fund. The LET announced recently that the 2023 schedule will comprise 30 official events, along with the Solheim Cup in Europe. The busy 2023 schedule will also see the Mithra Belgian Ladies Open played again at Naxhelet Golf Club, then, in June, the Helsingborg Open will return to the schedule for the first time since 2015 and will be played at Allerum Golf Club. 