Former Nyamira Senator Kennedy Mong'are has told Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka to stop misleading Kenyans over the ongoing IEBC tribunal. On Saturday, Mongáre said that Kalonzo was bringing the legal profession into disrepute. "The former vice President, should instead revisit the legal library and refresh and acquaint himself with the entails of the current constitutional dispensation instead of proving to everyone that indeed he is "a fool which he professes to be," he said. Four petitions last November were filed before the National Assembly seeking to oust the four IEBC commissioners who disowned the results of the August 9 presidential polls. This led to the formation of a  tribunal by President William Ruto to remove the quartet from office. Moreover, earlier this week, Kalonzo said that the tribunal investigating IEBC Commissioners was illegal. He said the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee that recommended President William Ruto to set up a tribunal to probe the commissioners acted out of ignorance of the law. Kalonzo added that the matter involves an Independent Commission and Parliament had no mandate recommending the Justice Muchelule-led Tribunal and anything they do is void. However, According to Mongáre, Kalonzo should have taken another path instead of misleading Kenyans on the tribunal's legality. He questioned why the Wiper leader didn't move to court to stop the tribunal hearings if it was illegal. Mong'are who is an advocate for one of the four petitioners noted that the tribunal was important as Kenyans need to know what transpired last year, August. "We need Kenyans to know the truth of the dark forces, the state capture mandarins, who wanted to change and subvert the will of the people of Kenya," he said. In addition, Mongáre called on Kalonzo to withhold from making unnecessary remarks on the tribunal hearings and wait for the conclusion just like other Kenyans. "I am asking Kalonzo Musyoka to stay away, from the unnecessary, irresponsible utterances, which utterances demean his legal credentials and await the outcome of the tribunal hearings," he stated. The nine-member team tribunal commenced its hearings on December 20, 2022. However, Commissioners Juliana Cherera (Vice Chairperson), Francis Wanderi and Justus Abonyo resigned pending the tribunal while Irene Masit remained put awaiting the tribunal hearings. The tribunal is required to expeditiously conclude its hearings and report its findings which are binding with the President expected to act on them within 30 days.