Vihiga Queens are worried about the threat posed by Bunyore Starlets as the two sides face off on Sunday in the Kenya Women's Premier League match at Mumboha grounds. Giant killers Bunyore have already beaten top sides Ulinzi Starlets and Thika Queens this season, to mark a faultless start to the 2022-23 season. Vihiga, who are the defending WPL champions, have won their past three matches without conceding but the Vihiga county derby will serve as a litmus test for the legacy Makers if coach Boniface Nyamunyamu is to be believed. "We know they are currently brimming with confidence after brushing aside Thika and Ulinzi but this will be a different ball game altogether. Bunyore will be backed by their home crowd but we will play for a win," he noted. The gaffer bemoaned his attack's lack of a killer instinct, adding that his young forwards must step into the void left by Jentrix Shikangwa and Tereza Engesha in search of greener pastures abroad. "The striking force is a big headache. They have been guilty of many open chances as was evident against Kayole Starlets on Wednesday. It's high time they raised to the occasion." Vihiga will be without Shalyne Opisa while Janet Moraa who played against Kayole with an injury is expected to be fit for the clash. Kayole will be eager to return to winning ways after going down 3-0 against Vihiga. Kayole, Bunyore and Kangemi Ladies maintained their top-flight status after the Sports Dispute Tribunal annulled the 2021-22 season. Thika Queens will settle scores with Ulinzi on Saturday at Thika Stadium. Ulinzi edged out Kisumu All Starlets 2-1 at the Ulinzi Sports Complex last weekend. Minnows Kangemi need to up their game against a wounded Zetech Sparks team. Sparks lost 2-0 against Gaspo in their previous encounter but the Benard Kitolo-coached students remain favourites. Gaspo will hope to pick up from where they left off as they host Trans Nzoia Falcons at Stima Club. The Gatundu side look revitalised after a change in the dugout that also saw experienced goalkeeper Vivian Akinyi promoted to the team manager's position. Inconsistent Kisumu host Mumias side Wadadia who have so far blown hot and cold. 