More than 80 families living next to Kakamega Airstrip want their relocation fast-tracked to pave way for its expansion. The families said they are more than ready to vacate as long as their interests are taken care of. Thye spoke  on Thursday during a public participation hosted by MP Fred Ikana (Shinyalu), his Ikolomani counterpart Bernard Shinali and Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale Last month President William Ruto promised that the national government in collaboration with the Kakamega government will expand and upgrade the airstrip to an airport. “I have also talked to Governor [Fernandes] Barasa who will organise how to get more land here in order to expand the airstrip to enable large aircraft to land here so that people from this place will not need to go to Eldoret or Kisumu when they want to travel,” Ruto said. The families said they were ready to move but do not want to be settled on government land for fear of eviction by a new regime. Mark Litiema said proper structures and legal measures should be put in place by the government to protect them. “We don't want a scenario where we are relocated to a place by the government of the day and when another regime comes in it turns against us and throws us out. This is Kenya and it has happened somewhere before," he said. Geoffrey Macheha called for proper valuation of their land and other property so they are compensated fairly. "We are very willing to move elsewhere, already we have surrendered our land title deeds and we are just waiting for the government procedures to take place," he said. "We are asking the government to get us land within Kakamega county and compensate us equitably." The residents said their economic status has stagnated because of the dilemma of being relocated. "These people cannot economically develop themselves, they can’t build permanent houses or plant trees because of the anxiety of being moved out any time," former chief Thomas Aseka said. The leaders present praised the residents for their cooperation. “We have agreed with my people on the expansion of the airstrip to international standards and what's remaining is the process of relocation, which we know will be a seamless one that will enable the smooth movement of the families to another place," Ikana said. "We thank the President for the gesture because we know that this facility will create job and business opportunities for our people.” Khalwale said Barasa's government had already initiated the process, which will then move to the National Assembly and the Senate for approval. “As local leaders, we have also refused that our people will be taken outside Kakamega or outside the western province and therefore we have a settlement strategy that will require the involvement of the National Assembly and the Senate,” Khalwale said Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya