World Mountain and Trail Running Championship 8.5km champion  Patrick Kipng’eno and silver medalist Philemon Kiriago are among top athletes expected at the second edition of the Nandi Barng’entuny Memorial Mountain Run on Sunday. Athletics Kenya Mountain Running coordinator Peter Angwenyi said the two athletes, who represented Kenya the World Mountain and Trail Running Championships in Chiang Mai, Thailand, have confirmed their participation. “Kipng’eno and Kiriago have confirmed their participation. We also expect winners from last year to defend their titles,” added Angwenyi. Last year, Kipngeno won six gold label races during the Mountain Running World Cup circuit with Kiriago, finishing second in the series. Speaking from his training base in Kiambogo, Nakuru County, Kiriago said: “Since I have decided to focus on mountain running, I will attempt the Nandi race. I don’t want to talk about prospects of winning but I’m targeting a podium finish.” Kiriago appealed to Athletics Kenya to give mountain running the same attention as other events. “Some of us have decided to specialise in mountain running because that’s where we have potential,” added the budding athlete. Winners of the 12km race (both men and women) will receive Sh100, 000. There will be other tokens which include heifers, sheep and goat. The race will start at AIC Lelgotet junction along Maraba road and finish at Kimatkei Primary School. The race will feature 12km race for senior men and women, 6km (junior men) s and 4km (junior women) and 2km for masters. Registration fee has been set at Sh200 for the senior men and women’s races while the juniors are supposed to present birth certificates for registration. Sports Cabinet Secretary Ababu Namwamba is expected to be the chief guest alongside Nandi Governor Stephen Sang. Others guests will be AK President Jackson Tuwei and area Member of Parliament Julius Melly. The race is organised by Athletics Kenya (AK) in collaboration with NG-CDF Tinderet Constituency and Nandi County Government. The theme of the race is clean air for a clean run.