Climate change stakeholders in Migori county have lauded the Tuesday launching of the climate change policy. On Tuesday, county Environment and Disaster Management executive Rahab Robi launched the policy in Migori town bringing to an end a move by stakeholders to draft the policy which will form guidelines on conserving the environment. Robi also said apart from the policy they have also launched the Migori County Climate Act and Migori County Climate Change Fund Act. “We have worked closing with stakeholders to help have a framework which will help us in fighting climate change in Migori,” Robi said. She said wetlands in the county and forest covers have been disappearing and there is a need to conserve the environment by working together with stakeholders. “Today we have placed a legal and policy framework that will make it easier to work with stakeholders both locally and internationally to avert climate change,” Robi said. She said the move will streamline the ongoing Migori County Climate Change Fund Regulations, 2023 bill which will be a table in assembly next week. This will help unlock the Sh22 million Financing Locally Led Climate Action (Flloca) fund from the World Bank which will place committees from across all 40 wards, 12 sub-counties and the county level. "We are going to assure you that we are going to have our own operational climate change fund which will be used in averting climate change effects in the county. We are going to ensure accountability,” Robi said. Milton Oboka the Executive Director of One Vision Kenya said the policy and the new laws will enhance collaboration among partners and streamline means of engaging the public for climate change adaption. Oboka said apart from unlocking Flocca Funds and the new rules and policy will ensure two per cent of county revenue is set aside for climate change. “As partners, we will also have a means of adding to these funds and work alongside partners to ensure climate adaptation is done,” he said. He said it will also give them legal structures to report and monitor climate change issues especially on working in wetlands and forest covers which have been dwindling. “We will be able to work with communities from ward level which will form the basis of our operation base to ensure climate change agenda is started from local communities who suffer the most,” he said.