Kanu Secretary General Nick Salat has formally withdrawn his petition that sought to stop the party's disciplinary committee from investigating him over allegations of misconduct. This now means he remains suspended from his position as the SG and that the committee chaired by Kilgoris MP Julius Sunkuli will now proceed to probe him. “Take notice that the applicant hereby withdraws the entire complaint against the first and second respondents," reads the notice by Masangya and company advocates. It further reads, "The complainant prays that both the notice of motion application and the entire complaint be marked as withdrawn with no orders as to costs." The Kanu National Executive Council (NEC) and Chairman Gideon Moi had been listed as the respondents. Salat had on January 20, successfully obtained temporary orders from a Tribunal sitting in Nairobi stopping his removal pending the hearing on the matter. Desma Nungo, the Chairperson of the Political Parties Disputes Tribunal (PPDT) said the notice of motion application on January 19, 2023, had been filed under Certificate of Urgency for consideration ex-parte in this first instance only. The latest development came up during the mention of the case on Friday. "That pending inter parties hearing of the application, interim conservatory orders are hereby issued staying the implementation of the 2nd Respondent’s letter dated 15th December 2022 suspending the Applicant as the Secretary General of the Party given under my hand and seal of the Honourable Tribunal this 20th day of January 2023," reads the stay orders. Nungo said the notice of motion application was filed under Certificate of Urgency for consideration ex-parte in this first instance only. Salat was suspended from the party on December 15 following a national executive council meeting in Nakuru. In a letter, Moi said the party had resolved to dismiss him owing to claims of misconduct. Other members of the committee include Ali Ogle, Joshua Mukirae, Gladwell Tungo (Vice Chairperson), Arnold Otieno (secretary) and Josephine Leado. This comes even as a member petitioned Moi to expel him for allegedly associating himself with the UDA party. He said while in Bomet, Salat claimed to have been away and had suffered enough and that he had come home. "Since he alleges to have suffered for too long in KANU and he has joined UDA, Mr Chairman, in my considered view and as per the KANU Constitution, this amounts to cross misconduct and he must be expelled from the party," Kibet Ngetich says in his letter.