Homa Bay government is taking necessary steps to tackle cholera after the health department announced an outbreak of the disease in the county. Alerts have been issued to all sub-county health facilities with information on how patients with the disease symptoms should be handled when they seek medication at these facilities. All sub counties' outbreak management teams have been activated and are on standby to respond to any cases. The county health executive Roselyn Omollo said they have confirmed eight cases of cholera in the past five days whereby the first case was reported at Marindi sub-county hospital in Homa Bay Town constituency. “As of today, we have treated and discharged five members of one family while three patients are still admitted at Homa Bay County Teaching and Referral Hospital,” Omollo said. The department has activated follow-up of cases up to the household level and ensures correct containment measures are in place for mitigation. Omollo said they are conducting community sensitization as all health facilities are on alert for case management as the origin of the disease has already been traced. “The public is encouraged to seek medical treatment if they experience any watery diarrhoea and vomiting,” she added. The county referral hospital chief executive officer Peter Ogolla had earlier told journalists that they admitted patients who had dehydration following the loss of water from their body system. “They are male and female patients. They are in stable condition medics attended to them,” Ogolla said. Isolation tents have already been set up for handling patients with the disease and as a precautionary measure to minimize further infection. A spot check revealed that Medecins Sans Frontieres (Doctors without borders) were ready to attend to people showing signs of being infected with cholera. “One tent is for male patients while another for females. The place has been restricted to avoid the spread of the disease to patients in other medical wards,” he added. The health department has announced that it has an adequate amount of fluids and antibiotics to address the disease. He said signs of cholera were watery diarrhoea and vomiting. Some patients may also have high body temperatures. “We must understand that cholera can be a fetal and patients are encouraged to seek medication as fast as possible,” Ogola said.