A section of Mount Kenya leaders has accused Raila Odinga's Azimio of plotting distabilise President William Ruto's government. The leaders who included MPs from the region cited latest outbursts that Raila's votes were stolen in Mt Kenya as part of the scheme. They named Jubilee Secretary General Jeremiah Kioni as a man who is on a mission to execute the Azimio agenda to bring down the Kenya Kwanza government. Kioni had last week claimed that Raila's votes were mostly stolen in the Mt Kenya Kenya region. Speaking to Star, UDA Legal Secretary and Gatanga Edward Muriu urged the opposition to play their oversight role and stop bashing the government on matters that don’t help Wanjiku. Muriu urged the public to be patient with their leaders as the government works to sort out the economic state of the country. He noted that the government has a framework on how to govern and should be supported. “The Kenya Kwanza administration is intact and opposition should be calm, we are going to transform the Country by initiating key reforms that promote growth and prosperity, “he said. Kipipiri MP Wanjiku Muhia has also rallied Kenyans to support the current administration maintaining that there is no infighting as being speculated by Azimio. Wanjiku confirmed that both Ruto and Gachagua are working in unity thus leaders should emulate them. “Don’t listen to the opposition and those claiming that their votes were stolen, our main agenda now is support Ruto and Gachagua to ensure Wanjiku is served to satisfaction, ”she said. She further said Mount Kenya region will fully rally behind deputy Gachagua on Thursday bashed the opposition urging them to play their role and stop directing President Ruto on what to do. Gachagua said Ruto did not need advice on where to attend service or where to go for development programs. He noted that the current administration is ready to serve the people of Kenyans and deliver on the campaign promises. Nyeri governor Mutahi Kahiga recently said that the Mount Kenya region will fully rally behind the president and his deputy Gachagua. Kahiga said this after he held a meeting with immediate former Mukurwe-in MP Anthony Kiai who paid him a courtesy call at his office on Thursday. “The mountain shall remain united and rally behind our son, Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua,” Kahiga said. Party of Democratic Unity leader national chairman Isaiah Gichu has urged leaders across the country to support unity and support the government of the day. PDU party didn’t sign working formula with any coalition in the past general election. Gichu has urged those who lost to play their oversight role without intimidating or attacking anyone. “Elections are over and it’s time to promote unity and peace across the Country and embrace each other,” Gichu said. He further urged the current administration to fulfill the campaign manifestos and treat all Kenyans equally. Kiamwangi Ward MCA Kung'u Smart has also urged leaders to shun their political differences and work for Wanjiku. Kung’u said that the era of politics is over and leaders should focus on how they can join hands and work for the people. “We should embrace Ruto and Gachagua as our top leaders in our Country and support them to deliver campaign promises, “he said. Murera Ward MCA Moses Ngatha has said that it's high time for the opposition to judge those in power. He said that ample time should be given not only to the president and his deputy but also to all elected leaders across the Country. “It's high time for the opposition to start engaging in politics, let's support each one for the benefit of Wanjiku,” he said.