Peter Mwarangu, the long-serving former national boxing team coach who died over the weekend, continues to draw tributes. Boxing Federation of Kenya (BFK)  communications director, Dancun Kuria, confirmed that the 82-year-old Kenyan boxing legend died after a long illness. Upon his death on Sunday night, Mwarangu's body was transported to Montezuma Funeral Services in Nairobi. Kuria praised Mwarangu for his tireless efforts to put Kenyan boxers on the international stage. “We sincerely pass our condolences to the family and friends of the late coach Mwarangu. The late served the sport of boxing with a great deal of dedication, passion, and commitment. His legacy will live on forever,” said Kuria. Kuria stated that the local governing body will keep the boxing community updated on the burial arrangements. Mwarangu established himself as a boxing authority in both the local and international arenas, even fighting for Hit Squad in the bantamweight at the 1968 Olympic Games in Mexico. He later became a coach and led the national team to the Olympic Games, Commonwealth Games, African Games, and numerous invitational tournaments over more than 40 years. During his lengthy coaching career, Mwarangu is remembered for sharpening the talons of a star-studded list of legendary Kenyan boxers including the 1998 Summer Olympics welterweight gold medalist, Robert Wangila Napunyi. Mwarangu also fired the 'Hit Squad' to a record-breaking eight gold medals at the 4th All Africa Games in Nairobi in 1987. Hit Squad head coach, Benjamin Musa, has credited Mwarangu with the meteoric rise and success of the Kenya Prisons Boxing Club in the 80s. "He built the club from the ground up on his own. Part of the reason he succeeded was that he was aggressive enough to secure employment opportunities for his boxers at the prisons," Musa explained. Musa said he gleaned some vital lessons from Mwarangu which have influenced his coaching style. “He was also very strict and his students became more serious and committed as a result.” Kenya Police coach Munhue praised Mwarangu for having a big and accommodating heart, which led to him performing numerous acts of generosity for those with whom he interacted with. "I recall vividly the day he took Suleiman Bilali to his own house for rehabilitation when he fell out of favour with the Police Department where he worked. "Bilali stayed there for five months, and it was just one of many unmentioned things Mwarangu did," Munuhe explained. Munuhe, who also doubles up as the BFK secretary general, said Mwarangu's legacy will live on in perpetuity. “We are asking God to give the family the strength they need to cope with the loss of a great man." Before becoming ill, Mwarangu established a boxing club in Ndenderu, Kiambu County, where he nurtured young talent.