Azimio leader Raila Odinga says he had been in constant communication with the late former Education cabinet secretary Professor George Magoha prior to his untimely demise Tuesday evening. The ODM boss said the last time they were in contact was two weeks ago when they spoke on phone. "We've been speaking on phone, last time I talked to him is about two weeks ago. We were talking about the transition, I think he had then gone to do an interview at Maseno university," Raila said. He spoke on Wednesday when he went to console Magoha's wife and family at his Lavington home, in Nairobi. Raila said the university's vice chancellor confirmed that he interviewed him and offered Magoha a teaching job in the School of Medicine. "And he (Magoha) said that he was going to do his best in Maseno, trying to improve the teaching." The Magoha family suffered double tragedy as his younger brother Alex who died in the US less than a fortnight ago is scheduled to be buried on Saturday. Family members who flew the body to Kenya on Tuesday said they received news about Magoha's demise while airborne. Raila said it's a tragedy that the remains of the two brothers are lying in the same morgue at the Lee Funeral Home. "We really want to mourn with the family, we are with them this very tragic and sad hour to condole together and we want to urge the nation of Kenya to stand in sympathy with the family of Professor George Magoha," Raila said. He described the late CS as an academician whose demise is a great loss to the country. Raila said Magoha dedicated his life to the service of Kenyans and distinguished himself in research and teaching medical medicine in institutions of higher learning. "He spent a bit of his time as an administrator, I think he was one of the most successful vice-chancellors of the University of Nairobi. He produced discipline, hard work and professionalism," he said. The ODM leader said it was this rare attribute that enabled Magoha to eliminate cheating in national exams which had become deeply entrenched in Kenya's education system. "He championed reforms in the education sector like no other and completely wiped out exam cheating and ensured that Kenyan children could compete and get what they deserved," Raila said.