A former Kenya Airports Authority security guard fired on allegations he attempted to rape a cleaner has been awarded over Sh800,000 for unfair termination. Bernard Akungu was dimissed in 2016 by KAA after a cleaner at the airport reported he had attempted to rape her. On December 22, 2022, Justice Linnet Ndolo found that the allegations made against Akungu were grave but the procedure adopted by KAA towards proving them was casual. "On the whole, the allegations leading to the claimant’s dismissal were not proved and there was therefore no valid reason for the dismissal. The dismissal was thus substantively and procedurally unfair," Ndolo ruled. "In the end, I enter judgment in favour of the claimant by awarding him compensation of Sh808,758 for unlawful dismissal." It was Akungu's case that he was employed by KAA on January 17, 2007, as security warden trainee. After successful training, he was deployed at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport, effective May 2, 2007. In 2009, Akungu was promoted to security warden Grade S4. On August 10,  2012, he was transferred to Eldoret International Airport and on June 26, 2014, he was moved back to Jomo Kenyatta International Airport. In December 2016, Akungu was deployed at the G60 screening point at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport. He worked alongside his colleague, George Maasai. He told court around 0900 hours a cleaner employed by Limah Cleaning Services East Africa Limited by the name Alice went to clean at his workstation. He stated that after finishing her cleaning duties, Alice left and came back escorted by the police. She later accused him and his colleague Maasai of harassing her. Akungu was taken to JKIA court where he recorded a statement. He was later charged with attempted rape. His colleague George Maasai was charged with conspiracy to commit a felony. Upon being released on bond, Akungu resumed duty on December 30, 2016. The same day, he received a show cause and suspension letter by which he was suspended from duty effective December 30, 2016 until determination of the criminal case. He was also required to show cause why disciplinary action should not be taken against him. Akungu responded through a letter denying the allegations levelled against him. He further stated that the outcome of the criminal case would have a direct bearing on any disciplinary action that KAA might take against him. On January 6, 2017, he wrote another letter to his employer asking that his suspension be lifted on the ground that it had no basis and was unreasonable. He did not receive any response to his request. He was later invited to a disciplinary hearing which he attended but requested the disciplinary committee to consider suspending the disciplinary proceedings on account of the pending criminal case. The disciplinary committee rejected his request and the hearing proceeded. While denying the accusations levelled against him, Akungu requested the committee to run the CCTV footage to establish the truth regarding the alleged offences, a request that was declined. On June 6, 2017, he was issued with a letter of summary dismissal. On September 29, 2017, Akungu was acquitted of the criminal charges under Section 215 of the Criminal Procedure Code. Upon his acquittal, he wrote to KAA requesting for reinstatement. He accused KAA of discriminating against him by refusing to reinstate him while reinstating George Maasai, who was his co-accused in the criminal case. He sought an award of Sh3 million as compensation. KAA in its defence admitted having employed the claimant and further conceded having issued him with a show cause letter on account of allegations of misconduct. They maintained that due process was followed in handling the claimant’s case, noting that Akungu was granted an opportunity to defend himself.