The city of Memphis is bracing for the release on Friday of a video of an arrest that led to a motorist's death. Tyre Nichols, 29, died days after the 7 January encounter with five ex-police officers who now face murder charges. Bodycam video of the incident shows the officers "defied humanity" in their interactions with Nichols, the city's police chief said. "You're going to see a disregard for human life," Memphis Police Chief Cerelyn Davis told CNN. The video of the incident is scheduled to be released in four separate clips on Friday evening local time. Ms Davis and an attorney for the family both likened the video to 1991 footage of Los Angeles police officers beating black motorist Rodney King, an event that caused outrage around the world and forced reforms in the LAPD. "I would say it's about the same, if not worse," said Ms Davis, who is the first black woman to serve as police chief in Memphis. Mr Nichols' mother, RowVaughn Wells, told CNN in a separate interview on Friday that she felt like she had been living "a nightmare" since her son's death. She said he was beaten "to a pulp" by the officers. The Tennessee city is said to be on edge since the incident and police there have increased patrols.  Mr Nichols, a black man, was stopped by five police officers, who are also black, on his way home after taking photos of a sunset at a local park , an attorney for the family said. Officials say he was suspected of reckless driving, though Ms Davis said on Friday that has not been substantiated. A first confrontation occurred as Mr Nichols attempted to flee on foot when officers approached his car, the local authorities said. They said a second confrontation happened when officers tried to arrest him. Mr Nichols later complained of shortness of breath and was taken to hospital, police said, where he was listed in a critical condition. A lawyer for Mr Nichols' family said the bodycam footage showed Mr Nichols being pepper-sprayed, struck with a stun gun, restrained and kicked. All five of the officers face charges of second-degree murder, aggravated assault, aggravated kidnapping, official misconduct and official oppression. Tadarrius Bean, Demetrius Haley, Desmond Mills Jr, Emmitt Martin III and Justin Smith were booked into jail on Thursday. They all joined the Memphis Police Department in the last six years, and were fired last week. President Biden released a statement on Thursday appealing for calm as authorities prepare to release the footage on Friday evening, local time. "I join Tyre's family in calling for peaceful protest," he said. "Outrage is understandable, but violence is never acceptable." Nichols's mother also called for peaceful demonstrations at a vigil for her son on Thursday. The Nichols family and their legal team privately reviewed the video footage of the arrest earlier this week. "He was a human piñata," lawyer Antonio Romanucci said of its contents. "It was an unadulterated, unabashed, non-stop beating of this young boy for three minutes." In a news conference on Thursday, lawyers for two of the ex-officers said their clients planned to fight the charges. "No-one out there that night intended for Tyre Nichols to die," said a lawyer for one of the men. Officials said Mr Nichols "succumbed to his injuries" on 10 January, but provided no further details. An official cause of death has not yet been disclosed. His family say he will be remembered as a "good kid" who enjoyed photography and skateboarding. The father-of-one, who worked at the parcel delivery company FedEx, had Crohn's disease and suffered severe weight loss, relatives say. Reverend Al Sharpton, a US civil rights leader, told the BBC the alleged crime was particularly painful because of the officers' race. "We fought to put blacks on the police force," he said. "For them to act in such a brutal way is more egregious than I can tell you." "I do not believe these five black police officers would have done this had he been a young white man," he added. California-based trial lawyer Adanté Pointer said instances of black men being killed by black officers rarely make the news. "This case exemplifies that it is not simply a white versus black issue, but instead that this is a power dynamic that plays itself out no matter the race of the police officers," he told the BBC. The FBI and the Department of Justice have opened a civil rights investigation into Mr Nichols' death. The officers involved are members of a special team known as Scorpion - short for "Street Crimes Operation to Restore Peace in Our Neighborhoods". The unit, which was created to police high-crime areas, is now under review, along with all of the city's specialised units, according to the city's police chief. Protests have also broken out this week in the southern city of Atlanta, Georgia, where some are demonstrating against the establishment of a police training facility in the city and the killing by law enforcement of an environmental protester who is alleged to have shot a state trooper. The demonstrations led Georgia's Republican Governor Brian Kemp to declare a state of emergency, which mobilises up to 1,000 National Guard troops to respond to the protests.