Ijara MP Abdi Ali Shekhow has formed a task force that will come up with ways of improving education standards in secondary schools in the  constituency. The task force members are Dr Ismail Buro (chairperson), Abdi Moulid Abdi (vice chairperson) and Abdi Bare as secretary. Ibrahim Abdullahi (quality assurance expert), Ibrahim Shakul (TVET consultant) while Anab Mohamed and Abdullahi Buro will be members. Speaking in Masalani town on Monday, the first-term MP said the 14-member task force will conduct its 14 days assignment across the vast constituency to gather information and share recommendations on how to improve education standards  in the constituency. The task force shall covers issues of ICT and education, infrastructural gaps, teacher-student ratio/staffing shortage, enrolment trends, academic performance in national examinations, transition and drop out rates, as well as institutional governance and teacher welfare. The MP said improvement of educational standards in the constituency has been a key pillar of his campaign manifesto during the 2022 general election, noting that this was based on his firm belief that education is indeed the best weapon to change the society and world at large. “Our basic educational institutions are grappling with a myriad of challenges that require stakeholders engagement to inform my decision on how best to improve the quality of teaching and learning for our children,” Ali said. During last year's Jamhuri Day celebrations, the MP promised parents from the constituency free secondary education through prudent utilisation of the Constituency Development Fund. He further promised to offer full scholarship for all students in the constituency who will enrol for teaching courses. "Education is indeed the best weapon to change the world and our children deserve quality education that will make them competitive in the 21st century job market" Shekhow said in Masalani town. The legislator urged youth in the area to take advantage of the scholarships to help bridge the teacher shortage gap in the county. “I have seen the way our students are performing because of a lack of teachers. As your leader, I have a responsibility to bring solutions to our problems and so I am announcing full scholarship for every Form 4 leaver who will enrol in a teaching course,” he said. Parts of the  constituency such as Holugho, Ijara and Sangailu have in the past borne the brunt of al Shabaab attacks and police have been killed through IED attacks. Communication masts have also been destroyed, something that has adversely affected key sectors like education and health.  (edited by Amol Awuor)