Thirty students from Ijara constituency, Garissa county, have benefited from scholarships to study technical and life skill courses under the ‘Ujuzi Manyattani’ initiative. The initiative is aimed at providing opportunities to pastoralists’ youth who have not had a chance to go to school. The programme, which is sponsored by the Northern Rangers Trust, Ishaqbini conservancy and the Laikipia North Technical College, was launched in 2019 and has so far benefited 782 students countrywide. NRT’s coordinator for the initiative Peter Nguno said that due to climate change, conflicts and banditry and prolonged drought, some of the young people in the pastoral communities have not had a chance to go to school and that was why the program was launched to reach out to them. He was speaking during the graduation ceremony held at the Ishaqbini conservancy in Masalani. Nguno said that people with disabilities and those who never attended any school in their life were given the first priorities for the programme. The first cohort which just graduated were taught tailoring and mobile phone repair courses, with masonry and plumbing said to be courses for the next cohort. “We want to give opportunities to those who have not been in school to get these life skills so that they can start their businesses and sustain their lives,” the coordinator said. “We are not only training them, we are also giving them the necessary tools for mobile phone repairs and tailoring machines so that as they go out, they are fully equipped.” He said due to the demand and interest in vocational training in volatile regions, the programme has been scaled to Samburu, Isiolo, Marsabit, Laikipia, Baringo, West Pokot, and Garissa counties. Nguno challenged the county to embark on the drive to have more youth join technical institutions to acquire skills that will help them employ themselves and be self reliant. He said NRT will continue to partner to ensure that the youth willing to join such institutions realise their dreams. The county has four vocational training institutions. Abdirizak Omar, a business officer at NRT, said that the courses taught are expected to also help communities by bringing services closer, and helping the youth to stay out of crime as well as drug abuse. “This initiative does not only benefit the students but also the communities. The skills that these students get here are not locally available. For example, the residents had to travel all the way to Garissa town for mobile phone repairs but now they can save on fare and time and get those services here,” Omar said. Graduands who spoke to the Star said they were happy that the courses had opened new opportunities for them. Halima Mohamud, who acquired skills in tailoring, challenged the community to change their mindset on technical courses, saying that it was wrong to think that gainful employment can only  come from white-collar jobs. Abdi Ibrahim, a graduand of phone repair, said that the skills he acquired had come at the right time, saying he was almost losing hope in life not knowing what the future held for him.