The Isiolo county government will use modern technology to drill boreholes in all strategic pasture grazing reserves and centres. The boreholes will provide clean, saline-free water for human consumption . Isolo Governor Abdi Guyo announced the technology will save time in detecting the right areas to be drilled. "We want to introduce modern technology to identify water depth, quality and quantity before venturing into drilling," he said. The governor explained that the new technology will also help his administration save the little resources that may go to waste. "Unlike before where water officials conduct the exercise and then abandon the borehole due to salinity, by using the new technology we shall know before drilling whether the water is safe or not, "Guyo said. The governor addressed residents during a meet-the-people tour in Lakole, Dadacha Lafe, Bulesa , Wadhiri and Boji on Friday. Guyo was accompanied by MCAs, county executive members and the county secretary Dadhe Boru. The county boss revealed that  Goda, Lotiki, Lakole, Malkagalla, Bassa, Badana and other areas will undergo hydrological surveys before the drilling commences next month. "Water is at the core of economic and social development, therefore making it crucial to sustaining health, growing food, managing the environment, and creating jobs," Guyo said. "Its availability and management has a  huge impact on villages, enabling them to withstand the effects of climate change-related hazards such as drought," he added. Due to frequent shortages residents have been relying on water vendors who take advantage to make a killing by selling the commodity at exorbitant prices. A 20-litre jerry can of water sells for as high as Sh50. The county government will set up water companies in Merti, Garbatulla and Sericho subcounties to address the challenge of poor management of the crucial commodity. Governor Guyo regretted that mismanagement by water committees in various subcounties had caused shortage,  rationing and conflict. Wadhiri residents lauded the governor for equipping the area borehole with a new generator. "The generator has fastened the whole process and we now pump the water, filling the tanks within a very short time," said Mohamud Jirma, an elder in Wadhiri. He also commended the county government for supplying relief food to the local community amid the current prolonged drought. Isiolo residents have been warned against using water from River Isiolo for irrigation due to dwindling levels caused by persistent drought. The reduced water levels have caused shortages with residents especially in Isiolo town and its environs forced to ration the commodity, putting them at high risk of waterborne diseases. Data from the National Drought Management Authority indicates that more than 80 per cent of water sources have dried up due to drought, with the distance to water sources currently at 20km. The drought, currently at the alarm stage and on a worsening trend, has resulted in depletion of pastures, reducing milk production per household to one litre against an average two liters, with camels and goats the only ones producing milk.