Fijian-born Kenya Simbas flyhalf Jone Kubu returns to Kabras next week after a two-month sabbatical. The playmaker has missed the opening four games of the season for the sugar millers as the technical bench opted to rest him after a huge workload last year, where he played over 700 minutes for both club and country. Speaking on Thursday, Kabras coach Carlos Katywa said the flyhalf will be considered for selection for the Kenya Cup matches against Nakuru and Blak Blad later this month. "Kubu comes back next week refreshed and ready to play for us. He had a busy 2022 so we gave him time off to recharge his batteries and be with his family in Fiji and I am confident it will be a big boost to have him back,” noted Katywa. Meanwhile, the South African tactician is optimistic they will fire on all cylinders in the second half of the season following a slow start into the new season. "We started the season slowly. We have a young squad and  I believe we will get better as the season goes on and be in peak condition by the time the playoffs start,” said Katywa. The champions are joint-second on the log with 19 points, alongside Menengai Oilers and one point behind KCB, after failing to secure bonus point win during their derby against neighbours Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology (MMUST). “World over, derbies are competitive and Masinde Muliro tested us accordingly but eventually, we prevailed,” he added. The holders had started the season with a 40-13 over Catholic Monks, thrashed Mean Machine 41-0 and edged out Quins 27-12. During the mid-season transfer period, the sugar millers signed four players from Masinde Muliro University including Baden Hayo, Phelix Bukhuste, Lameck Ambetsa and Gibson Perez. They have also roped in Emmanuel Otieno from Impala and Ugandan Eliphaz Emong from Jinja Hippos. Katywa said the new players will be key for the club in the next five years. "We have gone for youthful players who will be at their peak in the next two to three years. We are not just looking at this season, but the future," said Katywa.