Local football teams appear to have banded together to prevent journalists from interviewing their coaches and players. Gathering meaningful data from players and coaches, particularly those who feature for corporate and government-sponsored clubs, has become an arduous task. Attempts to interview national team coaches and players have been thwarted by federation officials who place unnecessary barriers in the path of information gathering. Curiously, the officials demand to know the questions to be asked before they approve an interview. Consequently, coaches and players are instructed on how to respond to questions — what to say and what to ignore. Effectively, this weakens the essence of journalism. During my time as a football reporter, I have encountered this type of red tape on numerous occasions. Interestingly, some of my colleagues from other media outlets have expressed similar qualms. Recently, my attempt to interview a corporate club player was foiled when he told me that media interviews were forbidden. Any football journalist will lament the difficulty in obtaining information from evasive and coy coaches and players. Nobody knows what motivates these clubs to caution their players and coaches against directly engaging the media. The intuitive response would be that government agencies and corporate organisations must protect their public image. The big question is: what are they so eager to keep off the public? Whatever the reason, these institutions have no right to restrict their employees' freedom of expression. Unless they are concealing something evil from the public, the situation is unjustified and bodes poorly for the country's media freedom. I have established that majority of Kenyan clubs have designated communications departments. This could have been a brilliant idea if the departments were not occupied by workers who view journalists as enemies. Giving someone a job does not deprive them of their constitutional rights, including the freedom of expression. Fifa, the world football governing body, and important institutions such as Parliament must act quickly to introduce laws that safeguard the interests of players and coaches and where such are available, adherence be enforced. When players or coaches believe their rights are being violated, they have the right to express their displeasure. If the employers fail to take the appropriate action to address such apprehensions, the affected parties have no choice but to talk to the media and even other forms of legal redress. Unless they are pushed to the breaking point by unfair treatment, no player or coach would be malicious enough to reveal information that would harm their employer's reputation. Some clubs have fired coaches and players unfairly, without even paying severance pay and outstanding salary arrears and wages. Three Kenyan Premier League sides are currently subject to a transfer embargo due to such issues. It is also common knowledge that some clubs go months without paying their employees. Are these the kinds of details that local clubs are afraid their players and coaches will reveal if they are allowed to speak to the media?