Mombasa county director of education Peter Magiri has asked parents to be cautious of schools advertising that they have been approved to offer Junior Secondary Schools. Addressing the media at his office on Tuesday, Magiri said that no school, public or private has so far received approval from the government through the Ministry of Education to offer JSS. “Some schools are cunning, I have seen many with banners saying they have been registered to offer JSS. No school has been given an okay to run JSS,” he said. Magiri said that they are depending on private and public schools to ensure the 100 per cent transition to grade 7 is achieved. He said they will ensure they will not compromise on quality in approving private schools to offer JSS. He said that a nationwide exercise to audit and assess primary schools to be approved to offer JSS started on Monday. At the end of the audit, Magiri said, a report will be submitted to the Education Ministry by January 20 for parents to know the number of schools eligible and that have been approved by the government to offer JSS. The assessment, he said, was targeting both private and public primary schools. About 1.6 million who sat the inaugural Kenya Primary School Education Assessment (KPSEA) exams are expected to report to Junior Secondary School on January 30. “Don’t be in a hurry, wait for the government to publish all approved schools so that you get information and be advised accordingly. If there is a parent who has already paid any fees, pray so hard the school is approved,” Magiri said. President William Ruto last year appointed a Working Group Party on Education Reforms, which carried out national wide public participation forums to audit the Competency-Based Curriculum. The committee through its report presented to the President at State House, Nairobi in December, recommended the domiciling of Junior Secondary Schools in primary schools. Last week, the Education Ministry issued an assessment tool to be used to vet the criteria of schools that will be allowed to offer Junior Secondary School. “There is an assessment tool issued by the ministry through the department of quality assurance that we shall be administering in our assessments. The priority we shall be looking at is the enrolment of students,”  he said. “Schools with enrolment going down and did not have at least 45 candidates for the inaugural Kenya Primary School EducationAssessment exams may not be likely to be recommended.” The government is also looking at the availability of physical facilities including adequate classrooms, labs and playgrounds. To cater for the talent pathway as catered for in the new Competency Based Curriculum, the government will assess if a school has room for expansion to have home science rooms, music rooms, theatres rooms among others. The ministry shall also consider the number of teachers and their qualifications in their school’s report for submission. “We shall consider the existing teachers but must look at their qualifications and specialisation. Even if you have a degree it must be relevant as outlined in the tool,” Magiri said. Last year, the government embarked on the construction of 10,000 new classrooms at secondary schools as initial proposals were for JSS to be domiciled in secondary schools. The government announced that the classrooms will be used by secondary schools and will ease the burden of transition to senior secondary school. Mombasa has 97 public primary schools with the number of private schools exceeding 400, but only 280 were registered as examination centres during the inaugural KPSEA national exams. Magiri said that some of the schools which might fail to meet the set conditions will be converted into feeder schools so long as they fall within the proximity of 2 kilometres from an approved school. “There is a likelihood of some schools being merged to form feeder schools for the schools that meet the conditions. There should be no need for alarm, I assure parents that there will be no crisis,” he said. On the aspect of primary schools sharing buildings and compounds, Magiri said that the government was looking into the possibility of merging them so that one is used as a primary school and the other is used for JSS. "In schools where we have an existing secondary school, the government is looking at a one-stop shop where we shall have one centre manager easily managing the primary, JSS and senior secondary school,” he said. The schools, he said, can be able to share facilities including teachers.