Kirinyaga county has moved with speed to control the spread of the African armyworm that have invaded parts of the county. Governor Anne Waiguru said that Kirinyaga is one of the counties that has been attacked by the African armyworm. Other affected counties are Murang’a, Embu, Meru and Tharaka Nithi. Waiguru said that her administration has partnered with the national government’s Directorate of Plant Protection in a spraying exercise that began on Thursday, December 29, in Mwea constituency. She said the exercise also targets parts of Ndia constituency while Njukiini ward in Gichugu is also under surveillance for prompt intervention should need arise. Farmers from the affected areas have hailed the county for the timely intervention, saying it will save their crop from imminent destruction from armyworms. Patrick Muriithi, a farmer from Ndaba in Kangai ward in Mwea, said that the worms were first spotted on grass before spreading to the farms, where they attacked crop such as maize and sorghum. He said were it not for the swift intervention by the county, farmers would have lost their harvest. “We appreciate the county government’s effort in coming to our aid and educating us on how we will use the chemicals they have provided to control the spread of the pest,” Muriithi said. Jane Magondu, another farmer from the area, expressed gratitude to Governor Waiguru for responding swiftly to their calls to have the pests controlled before spreading further. “When we saw these worms, we got so worried since if not controlled they are capable of eating up all the crops in our farms, thus leading to hunger. We are however hopeful our crop will now be saved,” she said. Her sentiments were echoed by Julius Murimi, a farmer, who said that good coordination within theAgriculture department has enabled the timely intervention that was launched immediately after the pests were reported. Murimi credited the swift response to the smooth communication between the farmers and the department through field extension officers. While leading the spraying exercise, Agriculture executive Dr John Gachara said that the African armyworm is one of the deadliest migratory pests that is affecting the county. He said the pest covers the areas below coffee growing zones, including Mwea, Ndia and parts of Gichugu in Njukiini ward. Dr Gachara said that the worms affect crops such as maize and grass family. He said the county is committed to helping farmers tackle the challenge and the pest will be controlled before causing significant harm to the crop. “The county government in support of the national government has adequate chemicals for use by farmers to cover the disaster at hand and so far the invasion is not widespread and we aim to control it,” the executive said. Dr Gachara said that the county has put in plance surveillance systems through community-driven organisations such as Wezesha, where information is relayed from farmers to the department. Individual farmers can also relay information directly to the field extension officers who will in turn respond accordingly.  (edited by Amol Awuor)