Kabarak University RFC’s head coach Leonard Ngetich believes his side is still in contention for a KRU Championship semi-final berth despite the huge 46-6 loss against log leaders Nondescripts on Saturday. Ngetich said: “It is still possible to play in the semis. We have four games and I’m confident we will do well and seal a semi-final place.” Commenting on the game against Nondies, Ngetich said: “It was a tough game but we were not mentally strong because we were facing an experienced team away from home.” Following the huge loss at Ngong Race Course, Kabarak dropped to fifth place on the log with 18 points as Nondies, relegated from Kenya Cup last season,  maintained their 100 percent record in the second-tier league. At the same time, Nondescripts remain on top of the log with 34 points from seven games while South Coast Pirates moved to second after a 28-3 win over the University of Eldoret’s Trojans in Ukunda. Pirates have 25 points while Daystar University’s Falcons moved to third on the log with 23 points after beating 10th-placed United States University Africa’s Martials 23-17 in a tough encounter. Western Bulls were awarded a 28-0 walkover after Zetech University’s Oaks failed to show up for their encounter at Kakamega Bullring. Eldoret RFC and Zetech Oaks are in danger of being relegated to the third-tier league. Eldoret (12th) trail Oaks (11th) on the log. Meanwhile, Impala remained top of the women’s Kenya Cup with a 28-17 win over defending champions Mwamba at the Impala Club. Impala went ahead with an unconverted try before Mwamba’s Naomi Amungi split their defence to score under the posts. Diana Omoso converted to put the defending champions 7-5 up. Ann Goretti would sneak in a drop goal to see Impala go 8-7 up but a Mwamba penalty gave them the 10-8 lead at the break. Goretti scored a try and penalty to take Impala 18-10 up before Mwamba scored a converted try, to bring the score to 18-17 but Sharon Auma then struck a brace, the second try coming from a fielded kick and a 45-meter run to score and seal the result for Impala.