Posta Rangers' head coach John Kamau expects his charges to fire on all cylinders as they seek to annihilate Mathare United in a Kenyan Premier League clash on Wednesday. The two sides will face off in one of two rescheduled Round One games at Moi Stadium, Kasarani, with Kamau seeking the scalp of the team he coached last season. According to the gaffer, the mailmen have been honing their act and will unleash a razor-sharp striking force on their struggling opponents. “We've been working on finishing over the last few days, and hopefully, our improvements will show in our next match on Wednesday against Mathare,” Kamau said. Kamau has urged his players not to repeat the gaffes that cost them their previous match against Gor Mahia, who beat them 2-0 at Thika Stadium on Sunday. “We have practiced making decisions in front of the goal. For example, when we hosted Gor Mahia last weekend at Thika Stadium, we squandered numerous scoring chances. “Football is a game of chances, and the team that capitalizes on those chances usually wins,” he added. Before Sunday's defeat, Rangers had gone unbeaten, winning twice and drawing the same number of times, a performance that put them in the top five of the log. Meanwhile, Vihiga Bullets will look to build on their emphatic 4-2 win over City Stars in their previous match when they host Wazito on Wednesday at Bukhungu Stadium. Following their relegation last season, head coach George Oduor Owoko has tipped his players to shine after a court decision gave them a lifeline to compete in the top tier. "We weren't sure which league we'd play in. That upset the boys, but as a coach, I was able to communicate effectively with them. Owoko stated that he has smoothed out the rough edges that caused them to stumble in their first two games. "Our main undoing was out of possession, this is all about what you do during the period when you lose and regain the ball. The team had two losses before claiming their first victory of the season, a 4-2 victory over Nairobi City Stars. They started the season with identical 2-1 defeats to Posta Rangers and Tusker. Last season, the Bullets finished second from the bottom of the table. With the games in Round Eight, defending champions Tusker remain on top of the log with 18 points from seven games. High-flying Nzoia Sugar are close behind in second place with 17, while KCB are third with 15. Ulinzi Stars and Gor Mahia round out the top five with 14 and 13 points, respectively.