Kakamega Governor Fernandez Barasa has decried the lack of funds to steer projects in the counties. Barasa said the last time counties received funds was September 2022. The governor spoke at Mumias complex where he oversaw the finals of the Governor's Cup. The Governor's Cup has been running from December 29 to January 1, 2023. "I want to tell the national government, please don't frustrate counties. We have not received money for the last three months," Barasa said. But he clarified that some counties have been receiving funds. "When you look at national government, disbursement is done in time. So what we are asking as governors is, kindly release the money to counties," he said. He downplayed a proposal to release the money to counties based on absorption capacity. This, Barasa said, was unconstitutional. "I want to request the intervention of the president on disbursement of funds to counties to ensure we run projects," he said. The Commission on Revenue Allocation had earlier on said that since the beginning of devolution, counties have been doing poorly at collecting their own-source revenue. CRA’s vice-chairperson Humphrey Wattanga revealed that the 47 devolved units have managed only Sh306 billion in internal revenue since 2013. This is in comparison to the Sh3.6 trillion counties have received from the national government during the same period. This has seen the county governments overly rely on funds from the national government coming from an equitable share of the revenue. "From the commencement of devolution to date, counties in totality have collected Sh306 billion as their own source revenue,” Wattanga said. He said the situation has seen development services suffer in the county governments. And that no county can allocate more than 30 per cent of total expenditure on development as is required by the Public Finance Management Act. Wattanga said the mark has remained elusive for the majority of the counties, especially those that inherited huge staff complement at the onset of the devolution.