Are you the type of person to make New Year's resolutions? If you are, I admire that. That kind of resolve is what makes the world keep moving forward. Of course, I expect that not everyone who makes a resolution for the New Year achieves it or achieves them all or at all. I'm not saying this is a bad thing because at least you made a point to turn your life around or had something to look forward to in the coming year. I am part of the population who don’t have the energy to look forward to anything once a new year begins. I’m not one of those people who proclaim that the coming year will be theirs, either. I just purpose to have a year greater than the previous one. And nothing is wrong with people who do not make New Year's resolutions, either. I like to roll with the flow. But just so I don’t feel like I have no direction in life, I like to make small goals in between months throughout the year. At the end of 2021, I had no plans and no big expectations as usual, but I had a really great year in 2022. It has been the best year I have had in a very long time. A long time being since Covid-19 came and ruined everything in 2020. Usually, my year goes by without any major events happening. I go through the motions, survive the year, and that’s it. Anyway, in 2021, I got a little to eager and made plans for January that would last me an entire year. I made a list of just three things that I wanted to achieve by the end of the year and gave myself no specific deadline, just enough time to achieve those three things. I told myself that by the end of the year, I would like to have moved out of home, saved more money and journal at least every week for my mental health. With the little expectation I had, was able to achieve all these, and even go above and beyond that. I mean, there were bumps on the way; very many, actually. But now I am so proud of everything I did and all the decisions I made to get where I am this year. So suddenly, at the start of December, I found myself very happy with the outcomes of a year I went into with little expectations. Imagine if I had had bigger expectations of myself. Would I have gotten more out of the year than just three things? What I’m saying is that I might be reconsidering resolutions and I might be excited enough to make a vision board for 2023. Alright, a vision board is literally a board you make with a clear picture of where you want to go or where you want to be in life in a certain amount of time. It covers various areas of your life and you get to have a visual picture instead of a mental picture of your future. People who make vision boards are definitely on a different level of focus and motivation, and I really envy them. I have enough positive energy to start my New Year’s resolutions list right now.