Local farmers from two villages in the Kanyadoto ward, Homa bay county are counting losses after some hyenas attacked and killed their domestic animals. The hyenas are reportedly invading homes and getting into pens, attacking and killing sheep and goats in Ligodho and Kanyakolo A villages. They also attack the domestic animals in the grazing fields during the day. On Monday morning, farmers Samuel Odida and Linet Aoko counted losses after their ten sheep were killed by the hyenas. “The sheep have been killed at a time I was preparing to sell them to pay school fees for my children. I have children in secondary school and a university,” Odida said. Speaking to journalists Odida decried the increase in cases of attacks on their animals by hyenas. More wild animal attacks on livestock have been reported in the recent past, causing residents in Ndhiwa sleepless nights. Crocodiles sometimes kill animals at River Kuja while monkeys invade farms, eat bananas and also grab food from children. The wild animals are believed to be escaping from Ruma National Park. Aoko asked Kenya Wildlife Service officers to restrain the animals and to avoid more economic losses. “KWS should intervene by ensuring the wild animals don't get their way through to our homes. I lost my sheep because of a strange hyena,” Aoko said. Another farmer from Ligodho village Joseph Okech said he lost his three sheep last week to a hyena attack. Okech claimed that he reported the matter to the KWS and local administration but he has not received any help yet. The lamenting farmers said they will take law into their own hands and eliminate hyenas should KWS fail to intervene faster. “We’re not ready to continue losing our source of livelihood to hyenas. We’ll kill them if KWS does not want to provide intervention,” Okech said. Kanyakolo A village elder John Ogoro said he is working with their area chief for an intervention. They want tight surveillance in Logodho and Kanyakolo A villages to ensure their safety. “The affected people need financial assistance. Let KWS move swiftly and address the situation because human life is also endangered,” Ogoro said. Homa Bay KWS officer Millicent Odundo said she has sent a team to the place for assessment. She said her officers are collecting views from affected families as part of the investigation process. KWS asked residents to report any incidents of wildlife attacks for an intervention. “Officers are already on the ground to check on the situation. We’ll respond accordingly,” Odundo said.