The Super Power gang has been linked to various criminal activities in the area, sending terror among many. They attack using knives, targeting cash and other valuables. Initially, the gang was almost entirely made up of young boys, just like the Gaza of Kayole and the Eastleigh-based 40 Brothers. Police ranked them top three most dangerous criminal gangs in 2016. Over the years, Super Power committed numerous criminal activities, ranging from murder, mugging, pick pocketing and violent robbery. The gang often roamed in the area in groups, stabbing their victims to spread fear and authority, according to the police. This forced the government to deploy suspended police officer Sergeant Ahmed Rashid who is facing murder charges to fight the gang. Police said Rashid and his group managed to suppress the gang’s activities in the past five years. Nairobi police chief Adamson Bungei worked as Buruburu OCPD and was directly involved in the fight against the gang. “The gang targets mobile phones, cash and jewellery. They operate in groups armed with knives and other crude weapons. Some have guns,” he said. Most of the gang members are young, and are said to have been deported from the US and other European countries for crimes committed there. Some of the gang members are drug addicts who had been deported for narcotics possession and trafficking. And with the rehabilitation programme in the country almost absent, they end up in crime. It also becomes hard to control such a group that is addicted to drugs. This has forced officials to ask the Nairobi county government to increase budgetary allocation for a rehabilitation programme to address the menace. Other officials said the gang was initially backed by some businessmen in Eastlegh to offer protection against rivals and eliminate competition. The businessmen later disassociated themselves with the gang after they realised they had other motives as security agencies sought to know their links to other international crimes. Broke and desperate, the gang then regrouped, forming the Super Power. Police squads later targeted their leaders, eliminating them.