Civil society organizations in Kisumu have called for swift action by the government and police to immediately tackle insecurity issues within the county as more cases are reported on a daily basis. The organizations led by Kisumu Peace and Justice Centre team leader Boniface Akach and HAKI Africa executive director Hussein Khalid noted that the matter was getting out of hand even as more cases and attacks continue. While calling for the resignation of the county commissioner Josephine Ouko, Akach noted that the police have done little to address the situation. He said that locals have been killed, and others still nursing injuries and wounds from attacks in the past month, especially in the Kisumu East constituency. Akach noted that the attackers operating on the motorcycle target the head with a near-fatal blow that leaves victims unconscious before robbing them of money, mobile phones and other valuables. "The gangs armed with several types of edged weapons, and machetes have repeatedly caused havoc among the residents, others have been killed, others left with long-term pains". He noted that security officers have failed to intensify patrols, especially in Kisumu East and Kisumu Central where the bulk of cases have been reported. "Victims of these attacks and in particular those of the most disadvantaged groups of the population in a country are plagued by serious and multiple difficulties coupled with the high cost of living,” he said. He there called for swift actions from the authorities to address the insecurity challenge in Kisumu East. Akach recommended the formation of a multi-agency task force to speed up the investigation with a view to bringing the perpetrators to justice. While addressing the media in the Nyamasaria area, Khalid noted that they will stand together with Kenyans to say no to insecurity being witnessed across the country. He said while in Kisumu, they visited survivors of various attacks, those still in hospitals and even morgues to see for themselves the situation on the ground. "We can confirm that for the last month, a total of 8 eight people have been killed by marauding criminal gangs operating without being challenged by security agency". He added, " This is why we are calling on the security agency to take action and responsibility. Kenyans are paying taxes and one of their demands is security ". Khalid further noted that they will stand united with the civil society organizations in Kisumu to ensure that action is taken.