About four years ago, Marsabit Governor Mohamud Ali created a county scholarship programme to give an opportunity to those from poor family backgrounds access to education. Since 2019, the county scholarship programme has benefited more than 2000 students and invested over Sh221 million in the education sector. The educational fund not only helps disadvantaged students close the education gap but also inspires them to continue their quest for knowledge, pursue their dreams and overcome difficulties for a better future. Salo Guyo is one of the recipients, who benefitted from the education fund. It has been a difficult time for Salo having lost her father at a tender age leaving the burden on her mother. With no formal education and limited employment opportunities, Salo's mother struggled to keep up with the costs of looking after her family. In an effort to ensure her child attends secondary education, she turned to the people in her community for help where she then discovered the scholarship programme. "I didn't want my daughter to have to compromise her school because she is an intelligent girl with a bright future," said Morme Guyo Since receiving her scholarship, Salo who is now in form three at Moi girls Marsabit has continued to excel in school and she is at the top of her class. "When I got my scholarship, I was very happy because it solved many problems for me and relieve the financial burden from my family," she said "I no longer have to worry about going to school and being sent back home for not paying fees. I am grateful to Governor Mohamud for this opportunity," she added Speaking on the importance of the scholarship program, Salo's mother, Morme Guyo expressed her gratitude for how this initiative is changing the lives of many young learners. "The scholarship program has been the beacon of hope to families who were struggling to keep up with the fees needed," she said When the 2022 Kcpe result was released, Sora Jillo Sora feared he would not achieve his dream of becoming a doctor, not because of failing Kcpe but due to lack of fees. His father was killed by bandits when he was in class six leaving him and his other siblings in the hands of his mother. Sora's educational aspiration changed after he was selected as the beneficiary of a county scholarship fund that enable him to join Nyambene boys. "I will now concentrate on my studies and work hard to achieve my dream. Our governor is just like a father to me and I thank him wholeheartedly," said Sora He is among 512 beneficiaries of this year's scholarship fund programme. Kulle Philip Dida is a soft-spoken 14-year-old girl set to join Cavellera girls. She was selected to be a county scholarship fund beneficiary in 2023. Before she was selected as the beneficiary, her mother constantly worried about her school fees. Thanks to the support of the county scholarship programme, Kulle can concentrate on her studies and her dream of becoming a neurosurgeon. " When I see a doctor, I am inspired by them. I want to work hard and be like them. I also want to be one of those people who are helping others." she said She could not hide her joy having conquered several challenges including tribal conflict to score 345 marks at Manyatta Daaba's primary school. "I would have performed better were it not for the circumstances we went through. I want to get out of here and help my family out," said Kulle Kulle, who hails from Manyatta Salesa in the Dirib location lives with her mother after their father abandoned them. When visited by selection committees, Kulle and her mother could not hold back their tears of joy as they congratulate the governor for his kindheartedness in assisting those from disadvantaged families. Kulle's mother, Baati Gurra Boru could not stop crying when she narrated how she struggled to make sure that she went to school. She said, it was a big relief for her and hope her daughter will excel in her education. "I have no means to educate her yet she is bright. I still have other children in school. I thank the governor for helping out needy students." she said The county scholarship programme has yielded impressive results in the 2022 KCSE exams with a total of 184 pioneer students proceeding to the university. One of the pioneer students managed to score A plain while 14 scored a mean grade of A-, those who got a mean grade of B plus were 10 and 56 of them scored B-, and those with C plus 69. In his last year speech when distributed bursary funds, Governor Mohamud Ali stated that access to inclusive and equitable quality education is a right of each and every child through the county scholarship programme. His administration will bring hope to children from needy backgrounds an equal chance towards fulfilling their dreams and making lives better for them through education. He maintained that he will ensure needy and vulnerable students are in school and added that the scholarship programme is in line with his agenda of ensuring that needy but bright students are empowered through education.