Six people have been arrested during a crackdown on banned plastic bags in Mlolongo, Machakos county. The suspects, all, traders dealing in groceries and milk were nabbed from their joints within Mlolongo open-air market and its environs in an operation mounted by National Environment Management Authority of Kenya officials on Monday. They were found in possession of the banned plastic bags that they use to serve their customers. The operations were led by Nema county director of Environment Parnwell Simitu and his counterpart from the authority’s headquarters, Inspector Sophie Motemi. “Today, we have conducted an inspection to check on compliance with plastic bags which were banned by the government in 2017. This inspection was undertaken in conjunction with officers from Mlolongo police station, Nema police unit and inspectors,” Simitu said. The duo addressed the press at Mlolongo police station shortly after the operations. “All the suspects have been booked in Mlolongo police station and will be arraigned in court on Tuesday to face charges of using banned plastic bags,” Simitu said. “We have realised that lately, the numbers of those using these bags have increased that is why we have embarked on the crackdown." Simitu warned the public against using the banned plastic bags, saying the law will catch up with them. “We ask the public to desist from using plastic bags since it’s harmful to both health and the environment. They make soil infertile, when injected by animals, they interfere with intestines making the livestock emaciated thereby losing value,” he said. He said polythene bags were also an eye sore to the environment since they take time to decompose and that’s why the government banned them. Mutemi said the crackdowns were ongoing in the entire country under the supervision of the Nema director general. “Nema has been carrying out this crackdown nationally since January 1. There are inspectors deployed in every county accompanied by police officers who are undertaking the operations,” Mutemi said. Mutemi warned that anybody found using, selling, manufacturing, or importing banned plastic bags will be arrested and charged in court. “As Nema, we won’t sleep. We will ensure that all of them are arrested and charged according to the law,” Mutemi said. In the Lower Eastern region, Mutemi said they had conducted such raids in Kathonzweni and Makindu markets both in Makueni county.