Lodwar street children got shelter, education and hope from the Lodwar Rescue Centre. The young girls and boys have been spending nights in the cold, dark streets of Lodwar town scavenging for food. They have also been accused of breaking into shops and stealing goods. Authorities say the number of street children has increased as most of them have families. Young girls and boys ranging from the age of five to 15 years are all over in the streets. Duncan Omondi pastor and founder of Lodwar Rescue Shelter says the purpose of the rescue is to rehabilitate, reintegrate, and resocialise street children because they have the potential to change their lives. Omondi says he came to Lodwar purposely to celebrate and usher in the New Year with street children. “When I was doing ministry here, I came across young girls aged four, five, six and seven sleeping on the streets,” he said. “I went crying and asked God to help me stand with all the street children in Lodwar. Our purpose is to rescue, rehabilitate, reintegrate and resocialise these children because we believe they have the potential to change their lives.” Omondi said they are targeting 300 children because some of them are going through painful issues that cannot even be explained. He said his heart and prayer is to see these children going to school, have a place to be taken care of and be mentored so that they can become professionals to help the community. A street boy identified as Josephat, 16, thanked the initiative of Lodwar Rescue Shelter for shelter, food, education and hope of life. “We have been through hell in the streets of Lodwar town. We have been in the cold and darkness looking for something to eat and struggling with life. We even tend to steal so that we can get something to eat but with Lodwar Rescue Shelter we have a reason to smile again for new life,” he said. Turkana residents have been raising alarm over rising populations of street children and families in Lodwar town. Residents called non-governmental institutions, the national government, county government and well-wishers to address the situation. Former Lodwar town councilor Lazarus Ayang'an said it's sad young girls and boys ranging from the age of five to 15, are all over in the streets. He said underage girls are giving birth in the streets. Ayang'an said most street children have moved from their homesteads to town as they dislike being taken to school. He lauded the Lodwar Rescue Shelter for giving them shelter, education, food and hope. “We need to take our children to school, some of the street children in Lodwar town have parents and guardians but are running away from their responsibilities. With the birth of Lodwar Rescue Shelter we will be able to know children that are not interested to learn,” Ayang'an said.