Security officials in Kabondo Kasipul are looking for suspects who killed a 70-year-old widow over suspected land disputes. The widow, Rusalina Ngeso, who lives in Kojuok B village went missing last Thursday before being found dead. Her body was found in River Awach which is about 12 kilometers away from her home. The body was found Saturday by a boy who was looking after cattle near a bridge on River Awach along Ringa - Oyugis road. It had some deep cuts on the head while other parts of the body also had injuries which raised suspicion that she was killed. Kojwach Kawere assistant chief Isaiah Ondoro said they suspect the widow might have been killed over the land dispute. The woman is said to have been embroiled in a land dispute with some of her distant family members. The relatives wanted to inherit the land. “The information we have is that the elderly woman didn’t like altercations and she refused to get involved in land disputes,” Ondoro said. It is reported that the grandmother was worried after she denied the family members an opportunity to inherit the land. A probe into what might have caused her death is ongoing. The matter has already been reported at Othoro police station and suspects are being pursued. “The widow’s death needs thorough investigations following some information we are getting from the village with regard to the land issue,” Ondoro said. Residents are called to help security to get hold of the suspects. Some residents described the widow as a humble woman who did not like altercations with people in the village. “Many people are surprised to find that she is dead,” a resident said. Area police boss Justus Kucha asked residents to avoid taking the law into their hands. He wants them to seek legally acceptable methods of solving disputes. “We don’t want people to take the law into their hands and kill others. We’re looking for the suspects for legal action,” Kucha said. The body was moved to Rachuonyo South Sub-county hospital mortuary in Oyugis town.