Google will go ahead with its plans to block third-party cookies this year in its plan to be fully third-party-free by 2024. The tech giant is looking to replace third-party cookies and cross-site tracking to continue preserving first-party data and consumer relationships. When data is collected through ways such as fingerprint sensing, users are usually unaware that their information is input into a profile that they do not know exists. Google's head of privacy and chrome partnerships in EMEA, Hanne Tuomisto-Inch said that they are preparing for the future by rethinking the tech on which much of the web advertising system is built. Through Google Sandbox, Hanne said that they are building new privacy-first solutions, without old technologies like third-party cookies. In this way, Google wants to mitigate the risk and increase unwanted tracking. Google Sandbox is an open-source initiative in partnership with the global advertising industry to find solutions for a more private internet. This is both for the web and mobile apps. Chrome is currently developing new technologies that support a range of web use cases and capabilities while giving enhanced protection for user privacy. These use cases include relevant ads, content, measuring digital advertising, fraud detection, and identity. Privacy Sandbox on android is focusing on introducing new more private advertising solutions without cross-app identifiers. Last year, Google launched new technologies for technical testing on Chrome. Hanne said that the first half of 2023 will involve early solution testing. “AdTech companies that are already integrated into these new technologies will start embedding these technologies in their solution offerings,” she said. “It will be very much a test and learn. It will be focused on Google Sandbox's individual technologies and learning how they perform. We will be relying on feedback from the industry on individual APIs to make sure that they are working well for the industry and feedback on how to optimise them.” In the second half of 2023, Google will launch the APIs to all chrome users worldwide. Google is currently testing with five per cent of users globally. This will enable the testing of Google Sandbox technologies at scale. Hanne also said that the goal for the second half of the year is that Google is expecting meaningful insights into the results that marketers and publishers will have in a world without third-party cookies. It will take Chrome one year to test and fully roll out these technologies before they can start facing out third-party cookies. “There is plenty of time for industries to integrate them, optimise the results and ensure that they work well for them,” Hanne said.