The Ministry of Education has released the co-curricular calendar of events for primary, secondary, and teachers training colleges for the year 2023 as the normal schools calendar resumes following a two-year Covid-19 pandemic disruption. According to the circular released by Principal Secretary State Department of Basic Education, Belio Kipsang, Hill School and Moi Girls Eldoret will host the Term One Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Association (KSSSA) games between April 22 and 30. Disciplines to be competed in in Term One include athletics, basketball, hockey, handball and swimming. Rugby 7’s is supposed to be held in Term One but has not been indicated on the circular. Rugby 15’s will resume in Term Two. Last year, only rugby 7s was held. The Term Two national games will be held at Kakamega High School from August 5 to 14. Students will compete in football, volleyball, netball, rugby and racquet games. The games will culminate in the Federation of East Africa Schools Sports Association Championships to be held in Bujumbura, Burundi from August 15 to 30. The Kenya Primary Schools Sports Association (KIPSSA) athletics championships will be held at William Ole Ntimama Stadium in Narok from April 21-25 while ball games will be staged at Maseno School in Kisumu County from August 8 to 14. Shanzu Teachers Training College in Mombasa will host the Kenya Teachers Training Colleges Sports Association (KTCSA) ball games from April 10 to 15 while athletics and paralympics will be held at Muranga TTC from August 23 to 27. The Special Needs Education primary school athletics championships will be held from April 21 to 26 at Moi Forces Academy in Nairobi while the secondary schools category will be staged at Nairobi School, on the same dates. Kangaru School in Embu will be the venue for Special Needs primary school ball games on August 8-14 while Kangaru Girls will host the SNE secondary schools category, on the same dates. The games resumed last year following suspension in 2020 following the Covid-19 pandemic. At the same time, Kipsang has called for elections of co-curricular activities committees. “As you are aware, the existing co-curricular committee has been in place for five years which will expire in January 2023. You are therefore requested to initiate and conduct the election of officials of various committees from Sub County to regional level as per Ministry of Education circular of 2018,” said the PS. The elections will see new a new chairman elected at national level to replace Peter Orero, who was elected Member of Parliament for Kibra Constituency during last year's general elections.