A nominated MCA in Kiambu has urged young people to support one another to nature their talents. Pacifica Ongecha said young people fail to exploit their talents for fear of lack of support from each other. Ongecha said age mates, parents and close friends should be the first supporters of someone's talents so that they give them courage and confidence to display it to unknown people. "We have seen so many people employing themselves and even creating employment for others through talents," she said. "Some like drawing, painting, calving, playing football, volleyball, athletics and others. We need to support one another to motivate each other." She spoke at Bata stadium in Limuru town on Monday during her Happy Holidays football bonanza. Ten football teams participated. Limuru Wazee FC and Vysa FC played in the finals. Vysa won against Limuru Wazee with 6-1 goals. "Today we will not be able to award any team or players. This is a warm-up and a bonanza to alert teams that next time, we shall have awards" Ongecha said. The nominated MP urged them to concentrate on what the government is doing to improve their welfare and support their talents. She asked them to form groups and register them to seek empowerment funds meant for them. "A lot of youth fail to get financial support since they are not aware of the empowerment funds and yet they need it to support their projects," she said. The MCA who was nominated by the UDA party thanked the youth for remaining peaceful during the August 2022 election. Ongecha urged young people to cultivate and maintain self-discipline so that they can be trusted in society. "Disciplined people are responsible and learn with ease. They also become respected and trusted by society" she said. A football player Arney Wachira urged young people not to take for granted all the advice they were being given by leaders, team management, teachers, church leaders and any other person. "All the advises are given so that we can be important people in society and more so, to sharpen us as we interact with other people," he said. A football fan Abraham Mbugua thanked the MCA for organising the bonanza adding the soccer games have brought so many people together.