The National Youth Service risks losing 2.2 hectares to encroachers, a recent audit report reveals. The report by Auditor General Nancy Gathungu indicates the service's land at Yatta, Mavoloni, Athi River, Mombasa Technical Institute and Mwatate are no longer secure. The audit team visited the parcels in February and March last year. They confirmed serious encroachment by informal settlers on the land registered in the service's name. Gathungu warns the state agency risks losing ownership of the land if a corrective measure is not taken urgently to secure the land under the ownership of the NYS. "Physical verification of the land in February and March 2022 revealed the parcels have not been fenced and were encroached on,” the report indicates. “Although management has initiated the process of demarcation of the respective parcels of land, the process has not been finalised. Therefore, the Service risks losing the parcels of land due to encroachment by informal settlers.” The 2020-21 report was tabled in Parliament last month by National Assembly Majority Leader Kimani Ichung'wah. The Service was also faulted for non-disclosure of biological assets with estimated value of Sh614 million in its financial statements. According to the report, NYS has 22 field units for empowering youths through technical training, farming and other programmes, of which 15 units carry out farming activities. “However, an inspection carried out in Yatta, Athi River and Mavoko units in March 2022 revealed that the Service has biological assets with an estimated fair value of Sh614,739,760 which have not been disclosed in the financial statements,” the report reads. Gathungu's report further indicates the NYS management did not provide explanations for the non-disclosure of the of the biological assets of undetermined value. The Service was also found to have unsupported infrastructure and civil works running into millions of shillings. For instance, NYS books indicate the state agency incurred additional Sh30 million expenditure under infrastructure and civil works. It was not supported with payment vouchers and the underlying documentations. The service was also found to have not analysed, itemised and supported Sh41 million, retention monies from contractors. “In addition, an amount of Sh352 million was owed to cohorts that were engaged in the six-month Youth Empowerment Programme between September 2014 and February 2015,” the report indicates. “Management had not paid the cohorts as at the time of the audit. Management did not provide explanation for the delay in paying the cohorts.” (Edited by V. Graham)