Residents of Sericho ward, Garbatula, in Isiolo are still counting losses as livestock die in their numbers owing to the drought. The area has yet to receive a drop of rain. Carcasses of livestock litter the landscape around Sericho town, with a foul stench in the air. In a bid to rescue the surviving but extremely emaciated animals that are on the verge of death, the county government and the Northern Rangelands Trust have rolled out a programme to evacuate them to areas of Tana River that have received rainfall in the last few weeks. Through the Sericho Community Conservancy, the Northern Rangelands Trust has availed two trucks, while the county government provided fuel and other logistics to facilitate the ferrying of the livestock. They are being ferried to Bura in Tana River county and other areas of Isiolo county such as Kulamawe, Kinna and Barambate that have received rainfall. Sericho Community Conservancy chairman Hersi Halakhe, who is coordinating the livestock evacuation programme together with Sericho ward administrator Idriss Golicha Jarso, said the programme started five days ago. It is scheduled to continue until all the surviving animals that are unable to walk are evacuated, he said. More than 300 cows have been relocated to Tana River county, a distance of at least 300km. Fifty-two animals are ferried each trip. Hersi said Sericho last received good rainfall way back in 2018, making this the worst drought they have witnessed. He appealed to NGOs working in Isiolo to complement the efforts by NRT and the county government so the surviving animals can be evacuated much faster. Ward administrator Idriss Golicha said all six locations in Sericho ward-Modogashe, Badana, Iresaboru, Eldera, Komorbula and Sericho-have been hard hit by the drought. More than 10,000 cows have died in the last few months, he said. Golicha said the governor suspended all development projects to enable his administration to focus on drought response activities, key among them being the provision of relief food and clean water to residents. He urged stakeholders, especially NGOs, to do more to ensure human lives are not lost, since residents have lost almost all their livestock, their economic mainstay. Sericho elders led by Mohamed Madera lauded the initiative to save the surviving few animals. He said other locations in the ward also need similar intervention. He said most of the rescued animals are from Sericho but the other five locations need help. Sericho resident Asmai Hemo said with schools set to reopen soon, parents from the area are a worried lot as they do not know where school fees will come from, having lost their livestock. Northern Rangeland Trust operations director Osman Hussein said the joint effort was aimed at supporting the remaining herd and cushioning the community in conservation areas against the ravaging drought. He said NRT will work closely with the county government to ensure the remaining herds of cattle have been evacuated to areas with pasture and water. Hussein said NRT will continue to partner with the county government to address challenges affecting the community. Isiolo Governor Abdi Hassan Guyo hailed the conservancy for its support. "We have provided relief food to areas hard hit by drought. My government will continue to partner with like-minded institutions to support the community," he said. Guyo said the county will also come up with long-term solutions to end food challenges in the area. At least 290 acres will be made available for irrigation before mid-year to revive irrigation schemes in the county. The county government is in the process of setting up infrastructure for 70 acres in Malkadaka, 200 acres in Bulesa and 20 acres in Ngaremara to begin irrigation farming. "Reviving irrigation schemes will provide farmers with alternative livelihoods to help eradicate hunger in our country," he said. Guyo said the county will promote innovative and opportunistic farming across all wards.