Record Kenyan Premier League champions Gor Mahia have signed a partnership agreement with AAR to provide health insurance to the squad. The agreement provides 40 players with inpatient coverage of Sh750,000 and outpatient coverage of Sh60,000 both on and off the field. This includes benefits for rescue and evacuation. This cover, whose premiums were partially pre-funded by AAR Insurance, is part of the insurer's efforts to create customized services for their clients. During the ceremony, Ms. Sheila Owiti, AAR Insurance Group head of brand, marketing, and communication, praised Gor Mahia for doing the country proud over the years. “Gor Mahia have been a source of pride for our country over the years. They are undoubtedly among the leading and most successful clubs in East Africa,” Owiti said. Owiti said the company deliberately chose to be a part of Gor Mahia's success story. “We understand the critical role played by our sportspeople in entertainment, inspiring young people, and building our nation's economy. “Furthermore, with our focus on emerging opportunities in under-served segments like Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) and micro insurance, we are committed to ensuring that our current and future clients can enjoy innovative underwriting solutions at their convenience.” “With this understanding, AAR insurance is proud to work with Gor Mahia Football Club, the current record holder for the most title cups won in the Kenya Premier League, even as the club prepares to celebrate its 55th anniversary,” Owiti said. Ambrose Rachier, chairman of the club, praised the insurer for agreeing to work with the 19-time KPL champions. “As a football club, we appreciate working with partners like AAR Insurance, who are determined to deliver value by empowering people through knowledge and creating accessibility for the underserved to great insurance solutions,” Rachier said. “We are excited that AAR Insurance has actualised this cover for our team. As sportspeople, it is important to have a partner like our insurance provider who is making this health insurance more accessible," Rachier said. Rachier said the coverage will ensure  all players are protected both on and off the field. “Lack of proper medical insurance for our club has led to the loss of dependable players in the K'Ogalo squad as epitomised by the case of Batambuze, a player whose bad injury prematurely ended what was destined be a glorious career at Gor Mahia FC and beyond. “Therefore, this will be a great motivation for us, and I know our team will continue making," Rachier.