The search for the replacement of ex-ACK Archbishop Eliud Wabukala at the helm of the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission has begun. The chairmanship of the EACC fell vacant on January 17, which marked the end of Wabukala’s uninterrupted six-year term. The Public Service Commission on Friday asked Kenyans interested in the top EACC job to apply by February 2. "All applications should reach the PSC on or before February 2, by 5 pm,” the Anthony Muchiri-led PSC said in a public notice. EACC chairman is among the most lucrative jobs in the country and attracts a lot of interest owing to the power the holder wields. Wabukala’s replacement is expected to stir a major political contest between President William Ruto and Raila Odinga's allies. The process involves the National Assembly which has the potential of sparking political fireworks in the recruitment process. According to the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Act, 2011, the Public Service Commission is required to shortlist the applicants, conduct interviews of the applicants in public, and shortlist three candidates. The PSC will thereafter forward the names of the three qualified persons to President Ruto to pick one. “The President shall, within fourteen days of receipt of the names of successful applicants forwarded, select the person to fill the vacancy in the Commission and forward the name of the person to the National Assembly for approval,” the law states. The National Assembly is required to vet and consider the nominee within 21 days after receipt of the name from the President. “The National Assembly may approve or reject applicants for any or all vacancies in the commission,” the law adds. On approval, National Assembly Speaker Moses Wetangula shall forward the name of the applicant to the president for appointment. “The President shall, within seven days of receipt of the name of the approved applicant from the National Assembly, by notice in the Kenya Gazette appoint the applicant to the Commission,” the Act says. In the event the National Assembly rejects any nomination, the Speaker has three days to communicate the decision to the President and request the President to submit fresh nominations. In this case, the President has to pick from among the three that the Public Service Commission recommended. If the National Assembly rejects any or all of the subsequent nominees submitted by the President for approval, PSC is expected to invite applications afresh. EACC has been characterised by unceremonious exits as was the case of Philip Kinisu who quit in 2016 amid allegations of conflict of interest. Kinisu’s predecessors Mumo Matemu, Prof Patrick Lumumba and Justice Aaron Ringera were hounded out for various reasons. In his speech, Wabukala said his appointment was to bring stability to the anti-graft agency. “We had to stagger the entry of these commissioners in stages. Two sacrificed to exit two months before the end of their term," he said. The 5-member commission would be under the stewardship of vice chairperson Monica Wanjiru until President Ruto appoints a new chairman, with the approval of Parliament. The other members are Alfred Mshimba, Cecilia Mutuku, and John Otieno Ogallo, who were appointed at the tail end of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s tenure. EACC CEO Twalib Mbarak hailed Wabukala saying he was "instrumental in shaping the strategic and policy direction of the Commission." The CEO added that under Wabukala's leadership, the integrity body realised significant milestones in the fight against corruption and promotion of ethics in the country. "EACC appreciates that Archbishop Wabukala leaves a stable, professional and reliable Anti-Corruption Agency that is committed to the effective discharge of its mandate to the people of Kenya," Twalib said. Wabukala having been from the religious sector, there is already lobbying for the new chairman to be sourced from among the clergy.