At his home in Maliki, Bungoma county, Mzee George Francis is a depressed man. He has been in court for over 34 years and his illegal detention compensation case is yet to be determined and concluded by the Eldoret High court. Francis claims his vehicles were taken by some unnamed influential officers during the Moi-era regime when he was arrested. In his case, at the High Court, he has sued the Attorney General, the Directorate of public prosecution, the inspector general of police, Christopher Wanjala, the Protestant churches medical association and the Christian Health Association of Kenya. He is seeking compensation from the group for illegal detention on an allegation of stealing money from the Protestant Churches Medical Association. Francis says in the suit that the above respondent worked together to have him arrested, charged and jailed at the Kamiti maximum prison for four years. He said that he suffered in prison for four years and was later released after his appeal at the court of appeal succeeded. "I was in Kamiti prison for four years, I saw people being tortured and life there was not bearable it was very hard, tough and we really suffered," he said. The case is at the Eldoret High court under a civil suit number .2 of 1998. Among some of the vehicles that he believes were forcefully taken away from him include: A Peugeot 404 matatu body build pickups KRZ900, KSB 151, KSD392 and my brother's vehicle KSD 059 Mersey Ferguson 174.4 registration KSB 515 with its implements: three disc plough, a harrow and a trailer ZA 4150 and the following sets of assorted Library books with cabinets. He believes the suffering he has undergone was the main cause of his wife's death two years ago. Speaking exclusively to the Star, Mzee Says that despite having a court order from the High Court that allows him to get back his car, he has tried in vain to get them back. "How will you feel if you see your car passing you on the road and it was forcefully taken from you, the detectives who were investigating my forged case took my vehicles and they still possess them I want the Deputy President and the President to help me get them back," he said. He also want chief Justice Martha Koome to intervene to help him conclude his case. Joseph Watila mzee's niece said that only a quick conclusion of his case will enable him to leave a normal life. "Mzee has been moving in and out of the Eldoret High court for over 34 years, I call upon the CJ and the President to quickly intervene so that he gets peace," he said.