Tusker head coach Robert Matano has extolled his charges for fighting valiantly to return to the top of the Kenya Premier League table. The brewers snapped their three-game winless streak with an emphatic 1-0 win over a solid Sofapaka side at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani Annex. Resourceful skipper Humphrey Mieno won the ball in midfield and teed up Tanzanian forward Ibrahim Joshua for his second goal of the season in the 28th minute. "Not winning in our last three games had begun to dampen the team's spirit.  Hopefully, today's result will restore our winning mentality and lead us back to our goal of reclaiming the title," Matano said. "Today, all departments worked as a team and there was a greater desire to win the game. We created numerous opportunities and capitalised on one to eliminate our opponents." Sofapaka head coach David Ouma admitted defeat, saying his team had been outplayed by a more organised opponent. "We played well but Tusker's compact backline made it difficult for our forwards to penetrate in their area," Ouma observed."However, I believe we squandered some obvious opportunities that came our way, and we need to improve on that to stay in contention," he said. Ouma, however, tipped his charges to bounce back to winning ways in their subsequent encounters. “We've been getting things right lately, so I believe today's setback will only serve to motivate us in our next matches. We learned some valuable lessons in the game." The victory leaves Tusker at the top of the league with 23 points, one ahead of KCB. Nzoia have slumped down to third with 22. Before Sunday's game, the Ruaraka-based brewers had suffered a loss and two back-to-back draws. In another match, revamped Kenya Police condemned Nzoia Sugar to their second defeat of the season with an emphatic 2-0 win at Nyayo Stadium. The millers' stay at the summit of the log, where they ascended last weekend, came to an abrupt end following the outcome. Patillah Omotto fired the law enforcers into the lead on the half-hour mark and Duke Abuya doubled the advantage in the 53rd minute. AFC Leopards cruised to a 2-0 victory over Bandari at Mbaraki Sports in Mombasa thanks to two quick stoppage-time goals. In the 86th minute, Nigerian forward Ojo Olaniyi put Ingwe ahead before Harambee Stars midfielder Cliff Nyakeya made it two three minutes later. Kariobangi Sharks thrashed Posta Rangers 5-1 at Thika Stadium while Kakamega Homeboyz pipped Wazito 1-0 at Muhoroni Stadium. Record champions Gor Mahia kept their title hopes alive with a resounding 3-1 win over Vihiga Bullets at Moi Stadium, Kisumu. Bidco United beat Talanta 2-1 at Kasarani Annex as Ulinzi Stars and KCB settled for a goalless draw at Moi stadium, Kasarani