One sure fact about relationships is that there is going to be chaos at some point. No matter how sweet the start of the relationship is. But some relationships come with a conflict of interest from the onset. Here are the relationships Kenyans think one should avoid engaging in because of unnecessary drama. 1. Your boss. It is believed that dating your boss could come with perks such as promotions and increased salaries. But it is a double-edged sword. Mary Stella says she once crossed a line with her boss which she ended up regretting. " I was in campus then. We had agreed to meet up for drinks but ended up in bed together," she recalls. The following day, she noticed pain while urinating. "He had given me the worst case of UTI I had ever had," Stella decided to confront him immediately. " I was so angry," she said. Unfortunately, she ended up being fired for what the boss termed insubordination. On her part, Michelle says her married boss always played the power card in their arguments. "Always reminding me he is the boss, even when the issue at hand is not work-related," Michelle said. She adds that at one point she tried leaving the relationship, but the boss threatened that if the relationship is over, so is her job. Michelle said she is still in the relationship but feels like she is being manipulated. 2. Your neighbour In relationships, people demand a lot of space from their partners and dating your neighbour threatens one's space. Gabrielle Onyango says he once had an entanglement with a neighbour that eventually caused him to move out. "We had sex once, and then she would not stop coming to my house," Gabrielle said. He says at times all he'd need is some time alone, but she would be all over his house. "I could not even lie to her that I am not around as she could see the lights on through my window,"  he says. Worst, he says, is that his self-declared girlfriend would question him whenever he brought a lady home. "She was too clingy, and I had no freedom," he said. 3. Your classmate Evan Onditi says he dated his classmate immediately after he got in campus. The two also followed each other everywhere. "We even slept in the same hostel which was forbidden," he said. The only time they were not together would be when she went home during weekends. He said the relationship ended by the time they were in their second year because his girlfriend was 'feeling suffocated' by the relationship. "After that, it became uncomfortable to see her in class. To see her being hugged by other boys yet I could not get to her," Evans said. Evans ended up deferring his course towards the end of the second year. "I could not be in the same physical environment with her without thinking of the hurt I was going through," he said. 4. Your workmate. Your workmate is like your classmate. You will meet this person every day of the week. Also, one is advised not to mix business with pleasure. Sheila Gathoni said she cannot date her workmate as she knows she will be choked by jealousy "just seeing him hug or laugh with other women at work." This, she adds, will not allow her peace of mind at work. Millicent Nekesa says she has never dated a workmate but has had several workmates make sexual advances towards her at work. "It always becomes uncomfortable once I turn them down. Some even stop talking to me totally," Millicent said. She said there was one colleague who would 'supervise' who she was interacting with at work. "He would text me that he is not happy when he sees me talking to specific people at the office as if wanting to control me," she said. Millicent said she has always had a 'never-date-your-workmate' policy as she never wants her relationship drama to spill over at work. "I don't want my stories to entertain people at work," she said. 5. Your siblings' friends. Such a relationship tests the loyalty of the players. Jane Busienei says she noticed her best friend and brother had started 'vibing'. At first, it excited her. But as time went by, she realised her loyalty to both of them would be tested if they decided to go on vibing. "Both of them confide in me and I love both of them, but I feel them dating would have put me between a rock and a hard place," Jane said. "What if my brother is cheating on my best friend, do I keep his secret or do I protect my best friend by telling her the truth?" "If I tell my best friend, I would be betraying my brother, yet by not telling her I am betraying her," she adds. She adds that when the two started getting close, she felt like her brother was coming between their friendship. Fortunately, they did not end up dating.