Nationals Cereals and Produce Board Handball coach Bryan Matthews has been named the StarTimes/SJAK Coach of the Month of December 2022. Mathews, who also doubles up as the NCPB ladies' team head coach, led the millers to the East and Central Africa Club Championships title after defeating Tanzanian champions Ngome 24-18 in the tournament-decider in Zanzibar last month. For his exemplary performance, Mathews was awarded Sh100,000, a StarTimes 55-inch smart television set and a personalised plaque courtesy of title sponsors StarTimes Kenya. Speaking while receiving the award at the NCPB headquarters, Mathews expressed his gratitude for the recognition. “This award has come as a pleasant surprise to me. I understand I am only the second coach to win this award and that gives me more motivation to better the handball sport in the country. I gathered much experience while trading my skills in Denmark as a player, now it’s time for me to pass down the knowledge to the younger generation,” he said. To win this award, Mathews closely pipped his counterpart, Jack Ochieng', who led Nairobi Water Queens to the ladies title at the regional championships. Other coaches who made it to the nomination list for their impressive performance in various assignments during the month of December include Kenya’s Tong- IL Moo-do team head coach Master Ibrahim Mchumba, who led team Jasiri to retain the Mombasa Open Tong- IL Moo-do title, Meshack Senge of Strathmore Gladiators hockey team, KCB rugby coach Curtis Olago, KPA basketball coach Anthony Ojukwu and his counterpart at Thunder, Sadat Gayawho. Speaking during the awarding ceremony, StarTimes Kenya head of Public Relations Alex Mwaura lauded the coach for his achievement. He said: “Every time we see a team register impressive results, there must be the coach at the helm of it all. This is the reason we have decided to focus on them in collaboration with SJAK. We are more than confident that this award will act as a motivation to coaches in various sporting disciplines and as a result, we are likely to witness an improvement of performances in general.”