Google has announced a new tool that allows users to manage information as well as see what type of data Google has gathered on them. This feature is currently available to all logged-in Google account users and has been operational since October last year. Dubbed 'My Ad Centre', this tool is the hub and control centre that Google uses for ads. On a user’s Google account app activity section, one can delete stored data related to their activity on different Google platforms. The auto-delete feature allows a user to set a specific time frame when data is completely erased. Alternatively, a user can manually delete specific actions on specific apps. Google user privacy and trust director Karin Hennessy said that this was a move to build trust with users. She also said that this was a way to ensure ads provided on Google respect people’s privacy by offering them key principles like transparency, traceability, and control. “All logged-in Google users can access this tool through myadcenter.google.com,” Karin said. My Ad Centre has three features; a homepage tab(my ads), customize tab, and a privacy tab. On the homepage tab, users can view recent ads that were shown to them as well as the topics and brands of the ads. It also shows where they had seen a specific ad and what type of ads they were exposed to. “We try to make it easy for an average user who is not really interested in toggling and diving into their privacy settings to understand what they are being exposed to,” Karin said. One can also choose to turn on/off personalised ads. On the customize tab, a user can curate their ad experience from three different selections. These are the sensitive section, brand section and topics section. Users are offered ads from different fields to select from under the brand and topics segments. Clicking on the ‘+’ means that one will receive more content related to a specific segment and clicking ‘-’ means that ads related to that specific field will be restricted from showing when one is signed into their Google account on Google Search, YouTube, and Discover. On the sensitive section, users who don’t want to see ads from specific categories can have Google limit those ads. These are grouped into five categories; alcohol, dating, gambling, pregnancy, and parenting as well as weight loss. On the privacy tab, one can see the information that has been used by Google to build their profile. “There is information that comes directly from your Google account which includes your languages, age, gender, and even profession,” Karin said. To change the information will require one to change the information on their Google account. There are also other different categories that Google makes based on inferences and information that have been confirmed by the user and verified. The information on the Ad Centre is the overall information of a user’s web activity on Google. While on the Ad Centre, a user is exposed to different ads that might interest them. “If they needed to shop for a specific brand or topic, they quickly get what they are looking for without using Search on chrome,” Karin said. “Users want more control over what information is used and drive ad relevancy for themselves,” she added.