Eight bright needy students from Turkana have been selected to benefit from the Wings to fly scholarship program. The Wings to Fly scholarship program covers tuition fees, accommodation, books, uniforms, shopping, pocket money and transport to and from school during the four years of secondary education. Samuel Loswat, Chairman of the County Scholarship Selection Board (CSSB) said 128 students who sat for the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education applied for the scholarship. He said they only shortlisted 28 students for interviews and selected eight students including four boys and four girls. “The exercise was smooth, we visited the families of the selected students and find out that they were needy and deserved the scholarship of Wings to Fly program.” “As the Wings to Fly Community Scholarship Selection Boards we have reviewed and scrutinized applications, carried out face-to-face interviews and home visits before awarding the scholarships to the most deserving scholars,” Loswat said. He said the eight students joining the Wings to Fly program will bring the total to 600 students who have benefited from the scholarship in Turkana. Loswat has urged James Mwangi, Equity Group Foundation Executive Chairman to increase the number of beneficiaries from eight to 20 because there are still many bright needy students who need help. He has called the National Government Constituencies Development Funds, (NG-CDF) and Elimu scholarship to also consider the needy students for bursaries who didn’t get the wings to fly scholarship. Francis Ekale,15, a beneficiary of the Wings to Fly scholarship said he will use the opportunity to pursue his dream of becoming a doctor to serve the people of Turkana. He said he sat for the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education at Alfred Power and managed to score 350 marks out of 500 marks. “I have been raised in a family that’s financially challenged. The only hope I had was to score high in KCPE so that I can get a scholarship to join my school of choice to pursue my dream of becoming a doctor, thanks to God I managed to get 350 marks,” he said. Ekale will join Chogoria Boys High School in Tharaka Nithi County to pursue his studies. Equity Group Foundation (EGF) and Equity Bank in partnership with the German Development Agency, are offering 1,000 comprehensive secondary school scholarships to bright children from financially challenged backgrounds and who sat for their Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) examinations in 2022 and scored over 350 marks.