The Gabra elders and professionals have commended Governor Ali Mohamed Mohamud for his efforts in ensuring inclusivity in his government. The groups said the move to nominate five from the Gabra community, with two being women, to the position of chief officers is commendable. Led by former North-Horr ward MCA Sora Guyo, they hailed the governor for giving opportunities to women to harness their contributions to governance. They lauded governor Mohamud for fronting two of their women to serve in his government as chief officers, saying the community has not had such a position since the onset of devolution. They observed that the appointment was a big plus to the community and especially the women who were traditionally regarded as children. In a press briefing, the former nominated MCA Lokho Abduba thanked the governor for promoting regional balance and pushing forward the global agenda on gender equality and women's consideration. She described as unprecedented the gesture of immense goodwill extended to the women folks by the governor, saying he has made a lot of efforts in gender inclusion and youth empowerment. She asked those nominees to live up to the expectations of the governor and serve residents with decorum to transform the county in ensuring the county attains meaningful development. She underscored the need for peaceful coexistence among various communities in the region and urged the community to shun negative ethnicity and work together to achieve growth. She said the journey towards peaceful coexistence begins by accepting the need for peace and preaching harmony. The former nominated MCA said the current drought situation must be taken care of by both the state and non-state actors. She described the situation as dire because the area had not had rains for the last four years resulting in crop failures and acute water shortages in most parts of the county. She urged both the national and county government to move swiftly to avert the crisis. The Gabra professional Boru Diba thanked the governor for keeping to his word while unveiling an inclusive government, that focuses more on tribal and regional interests. He urged residents to cooperate with security agencies to foster peace by revealing the identities of criminals whose illegal operations threatened the peace. Former North-Horr MCA Guyo Sora praised the governor for the appointments saying this was a great honour to them as they have never had women in the post of chief officers. He stressed the need for the residents to maintain peace so as to foster development in the region. " Marsabit county is the only home we have. Peace is more important than any material gift taken to disrupt peace. Let us all keep in mind that there is no place like home," she said He called upon both state and non-state actors to help the suffering residents. "The situation on the ground is so dire. There are shortages of both human and animal feeds as well as a scarcity of water," she said Youth representative Abdub Roba Diba called on residents irrespective of their religion or ethnic differences to coexist peacefully. The county chief officer nominee Ms Anamaria Qalla Denge while thanking the governor for giving her an opportunity to serve in his government, said the county boss has done the best for considering youths and women "I am grateful to the governor for my nomination which is an honour not only to me but also to women in the county. I promise to work hard to deliver on the mandate and preserve the governor's legacy," said Anamaria She stated that her nomination was an expression of the faith that the governor has in her and vowed to serve earnestly in her capacity as chief officer. The current gender director said hundreds of women had been gainfully employed in various positions in the county government. She described the governor as gender friendly and urged him to consider more women in his next appointment to bridge the gap in gender ratio. She said women have shown that they can be entrusted with more responsibility given the way they have discharged the various assignment.