Governors are now accusing the National Treasury of frustrating devolution by withholding funds to counties. Council of Governors Finance and Economic Planning committee chairman Fernandes Barasa, who is also the Kakamega governor, said that unprecedented delays in disbursing shareable revenue to counties was unconstitutional and hurt development. “It is illegal for the National Treasury to say that release of funds to counties be done based on the rate of absorption by the devolved units. The constitution requires that shareable revenue be released to counties on monthly basis,” Barasa said. He said that counties have not received Sh90 billion meant for the months of October, November and December, crippling development plans by governors. The county chief said that this has left counties with own revenue as the only alternative to ensure they remain operational. The governors are concerned that continued unexplained delays would derail the development meant for their people. Barasa said the delays have also crippled service delivery in most counties and, as county chiefs, they have to pursue other alternatives to ensure counties operate uninterrupted. The governor was speaking during a memorial service for Tito Wajakoyah, father to Roots Party leader George Wajakoyah, at Indangalasia Primary School in Matungu on Tuesday. Siaya Governor James Orengo and Kakamega Woman Representative Elsie Muhanda attended the event. Barasa said also asked Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua to respect the constitution and stop interfering in the management of Nairobi county. He said Governor Johnson Sakaja is the one who was given mandate by Nairobi residents to manage the affairs of the city county and should be left to discharge his mandate without interference. “The constitution is clear that counties are distinct. In as much as were are interdependent with the national government, in matters governance, give Sakaja a chance to serve the people of Nairobi,”Barasa said. He said that it was important for the two levels of governments to respect each other because they are serving the same people. Barasa said that the 47 governors have resolved to cooperate with the national government on mutual collaboration and cooperation and to realise the much needed development. A section of Mt Kenya leaders led by the DP have been up in arms against plans by Sakaja to transform Nairobi. They have warned the Nairobi governor to stop interfering with businesses owned by people from the region. Orengo said that Gachagua had violated the constitution by attempting to lecture Sakaja on how to run the city county affairs. “If there is any problem in Nairobi as a county, Sakaja can only engage with President William Ruto and not his deputy. Sakaja was elected by all Kenyans and he must be respected and left to do his work as a governor” he said.  (edited by Amol Awuor)