Shabana head coach Sammy Okoth is confident that his charges will maintain their impressive start to the season when they play Mwatate FC on Wednesday. Speaking after the club recorded their fourth win of the season after edging Mara Sugar 1-0 at Awendo Green Stadium, Okoth said: “We have not had enough time to train but God willing, we are targeting a win.” Vincent Nyabuto scored the lone goal for Shabana in the 27th minute. It was Nyabuto’s first game for the team. He was the club’s top scorer last season. Skipper Peter Ogechi’s effort in the dying minutes of the game was controversially ruled out for offside. Commenting on the game, Okoth said: “It was a tough game though we didn’t play well. Mara Sugar is a good team but our experience helped us.” Mara Sugar’s coach Francis Xavier said: “My players played well but we lost and I accept the results. We now turn our focus to out next game.” It was Mara Sugar’s first loss of the season. Shabana are unbeaten in the league, second on the log with 13 points from from five games same as leaders Kibera Black Stars. However, Black Stars have played one more game. In matches played on Saturday, Gusii FC walloped nine-man Vihiga United 9-1 at Mumias Sports Complex.  The club failed to raise a full team after failing to register players before the start of the season. Vihiga United coach Mike Muruli is hoping to make signing in the mid season transfer window despite their financial struggles. Mombasa Elites and Migori Youth played to a 1-1 draw while Kajiado FC and Murang’a Seal also battled to a 2-2 draw. Struggling Silibwet Leons picked their first point of the season after holding Mully Children’s Family (MCF) to a barren draw at Bomet Stadium. Administration Police Service (APS) Bomet failed to honour their game against Naivas while Fortune Sacco dished their second walkover of the season. If they fail to honour their third game, incidentally against APS Bomet on Wednesday, they will be relegated. In matches played on Friday, SS Assad beat Gogo Darajani 1-0 while leaders Kibera Black Stars beat Mwatate 2-0 in Wundanyi in Taita Taveta County.