Sagante Jaldesa ward MCA Amos Wako on Tuesday launched a sports tournament as part of a youth empowerment programme for talent identification and drug abuse awareness. Addressing the press, the MCA said the program is set to empower more youths in the ward in sporting activities as a way of keeping them occupied. "Our aim is to ensure that all our youth are empowered and also to ensure that we get rid of drug and substance abuse," he said. He noted that there has been a rise in drug abuse and the tournament will be used to sensitize the youths on the negative effects of drugs. The Sagante Jaldesa MCA said they will use the tournament to also engage the local community on female genital mutilation, the practice which is still rampant in the county despite a massive campaign against it. While promising to continue supporting sports activities in his ward, he said his aim is to tap into potential underutilized talents. He added that local youths possess various unused sports talents largely due to a lack of support. The MCA said all the teams will get sports jerseys and there will be individual awards for the best defender, top scorer, best player and best goalkeeper "Our youths lack committed person who can identify and nurture their passion to excel in sports and improve their livelihoods," he said. The MCA expounded that sports teams will be set up in each location in the ward, with a view to engaging youth in various sporting activities. He added that they will in turn lead to the formation of a competent ward team which will then compete with other wards within the county. "I will talk with my counterparts within the county to equally form their local sports so as to organize for inter-ward tournaments to help us select players who will eventually form a county team to compete with other devolved units," said MCA. "I believe we have many talented youths but the complex dynamics of them participating in sports has discouraged many youths from pursuing their sports careers," he added. He said leaders should support sports so as to keep youth out of criminal activities, and drug and substance abuse. "We want to encourage youth to focus on sporting activities as it's the only way to make them busy and avoid indulging in drugs," he said. He called upon parents to take initiative for taking their children outside the home to play or run, which according to him is for their mental and physical well-being. "What we are doing here is the psychomotor domain of education, whereby children are given the opportunity to exercise their bodies through sports activities," he added. The MCA appealed to parents to create ample time to take their children to sports centres and events, emphasizing that this would serve to encourage the children's involvement in sports. He advised teachers to encourage and support children to participate in sporting activities from a tender age alongside their academic education pursuits to enable them to develop their talents. He observed that the youth would not be able to manage their experience and talents, especially in sports without proper education. The football tournament is also expected to increase awareness of the issues of drugs, FGM and Gender-Based violence. The Sagante Super cup tournament involves 25 football clubs in the ward where the winner takes Sh30,000, the first runners-up sh20,000 and the second runners-up Sh10,000. The remaining 22 teams will also get an enclosed envelope with something small inside. All the teams will get sports jerseys and there will be individual awards for the best defender, top scorer, best player and best goalkeeper.