A family in Naishi, Njoro sub-county in Nakuru County is seeking justice after their kin was killed and another one injured allegedly by a police vehicle from Naishi police station on January 11. Ann Wambui Kihungi died soon after arriving at the Nakuru Teaching and Referral hospital. Her son Emilio Chege was treated and discharged after sustaining injuries from the accident. According to the deceased husband Kihungi Njagi, the police vehicle from Naishi police station hit the motorbike at a road junction from behind. The wife was a pillion passenger on the motorbike that was being ridden by her son. The deceased and her son were heading to Nakuru Teaching and referral hospital in Nakuru city to visit a relative who had been admitted to the facility. The police officer driving the vehicle is alleged to have been drunk at the time of the accident. “The police vehicle from Naishi police station hit the motorbike from behind throwing them into the tarmac road. My wife who was the pillion passenger sustained serious injuries with my son who was riding the motorbike also sustaining injuries from the crash,” Kihungi said. “She was bleeding profusely and efforts to give her first aid at a nearby dispensary did not help necessitating us to bring her to the Nakuru Teaching and Referral Hospital where she passed on while being resuscitated.” Kihungi also blames the two police officers who were in the vehicle for allegedly insisting on taking the deceased to Nakuru Teaching and referral hospital instead of the nearby Njoro Sub-county hospital. The police officers are further alleged to have insisted on using an alternative bumpy and rough road to the hospital rather than the main smooth Njoro-Nakuru highway with the critically injured person. “We took a lot of time on the road due to its bad state, by the time we were arriving at the hospital my wife died while being attended to by the doctors," he said. According to Munyiri Kaniaru, Medical Officer-in-charge of the emergency room at the Nakuru Teaching and Referral Hospital, the deceased had an open fracture in her right lower leg and had lost a lot of blood. “We received two patients a few minutes past one o'clock who had been involved in a road accident, the middle-aged woman was in a critical condition and she passed on as we were trying to resuscitate her,” Kaniaru said. “The young man is stable, he had minor bruises on the head and back pain. He was discharged after a CT scan and given some oral medication." Confirming the accident, Njoro OCPD Isaac Odumbe said investigations are being conducted to verify what happened and whether the driver, who is a police officer, was drunk as alleged. The family is seeking for the government to help them get justice and also assistance for them give the deceased a befitting send-off as well as foot for the medical bills incurred by Chege