eWAKA, an African sustainable mobility startup, has received a loan of Sh67.5 million from the State Secretariat for Economic Affairs (SECO) startup fund of the Swiss Confederation. This strategic offer will support eWAKA’s 2023 plans to accelerate a growth strategy focused on providing innovative and sustainable mobility technology in Africa. This is through the local production and promotion of eWAKA’s signature electronic bike known as Shujaa. The growth strategy built on several pilot projects including a Shujaa market introduction will enable eWAKA to expand to other parts of Kenya and East Africa in 2023. A key element of eWAKA’s growth plans is to secure additional financing options for independent delivery drivers. According to a release made by the startup, the transportation sector is the second highest contributor to greenhouse gas emissions. The urban logistics sector in Africa and across the globe urgently needs to adopt new technologies and business models to fight climate change, which disproportionately affects African countries. The effects are felt in major economic value chains including the agriculture sector, Africa’s largest. “By adopting more cost-effective and environmentally friendly vehicles into transportation fleets, the logistics sector can play a crucial role in helping Africa tackle climate challenges while providing significant economic benefits to a number of critical industry sector value chains,” the statement read in part. Commenting on eWAKA’s 2023 growth strategy, eWAKA’s co-founder, CEO, and general counsel, Celeste Vogel said that the company’s unique value-added proposition is the completeness of the ecosystem they offer in the space of last-mile transportation. Vogel also said that Ewaka conducted several pilot projects with target consumer segments to further develop their product line. She added that understanding localised constraints and variables is key to successfully deploying micro-mobility models and solutions. “For 2023, eWAKA will pursue strategic partnerships to expand our customer base by adding greater financing options and aggressively promoting the Shujaa rollout in Kenya, targeting the B2B sector as well as independent drivers,” Vogel said. SECO startup fund manager Susanne Grossmann said that they welcome the contribution to local production in the e-vehicle space and hope that Ewaka will set a successful example for efficient, climate-friendly traffic systems in African cities that meet the mobility needs of the continent. “After a robust selection process, we are pleased to offer eWAKA a loan for executing their business model in Kenya,” she said. 2022 was a watershed year for eWAKA. Leveraging key customer segment insights and expanding local production capabilities, eWAKA is poised for growth in 2023. This is with a full product line for multiple customer segments offering flexible rental options, subscription and purchase plans to meet commutes, personal well-being, and net-zero targets. The Electronic mobility market in Africa is intensifying in Africa, specifically in Kenya, Egypt, and South Africa. South Africa has the most developed e-mobility market in Africa, with Statista counting about 1,000 electric vehicles (EVs) in 2022. In Kenya, other companies in e-mobility are OPIBUS and Fika Mobility.