Ndaragwa constituency cannot account for bursaries amounting to Sh28 million, latest audit report reveals. The bursaries – according to Auditor General Nancy Gathungu – include the National Government Constituency Development Fund and the Social Security bursaries advanced to the constituency during 2018-19 financial year. In the report tabled in Parliament by National Assembly Majority Leader Kimani Ichung'wah last year, Ndaragwa could not give supportive evidence of bursaries amounting to Sh27,662,646 it issued to primary, secondary and tertiary institutions in the area. The constituency fund management did not avail documentary evidence, especially acknowledgment receipts from the learning institutions, to confirm that the monies hit their respective accounts. “Acknowledgement receipts for bursary payments amounting to Sh27,662,646 by the beneficiaries were not availed,” the report reads. “Consequently, the validity of the payments could not be established.” The audit team further questioned Sh900, 848 unexplained variance between the Sh4,362,069 Social Security bursaries and ledger balance of Sh3,461,220. The unreconciled bursary on Social Security, according to the audit findings, casts doubt on the validity and accuracy of other grants and payments totalling to Sh56,548,725. The constituency was also found to have incurred irregular expenditure, spending Sh3.6 million in implementing projects outside its constitutional mandate. Some of the projects the management undertook and which according to the auditor was of a breach of the law, include dam embankment used as access road on Wakenen Dam and heavy grading with watering and compaction and gravel patching of Mailo junction. “The management has not rendered satisfactory explanation for the implementation of projects outside its mandate in contravention with Section 24(a) of the National Government Constituencies Development Fund Act, 2015,” the report said. Section 24(a) of the NG-CDF Act states that a project under this Act shall only be in respect of works and services falling within the functions of the national government under the constitution. “Consequently, the management is in breach of the law,” the auditor said.  (edited by Amol Awuor)