Kirinyaga County Executive and Assembly have pledged to forge a harmonious working relationship in order to realize the development agenda for the county. Governor Anne Waiguru and Speaker of Assembly Muteti Murimi have agreed to put the interests of the county first to ensure election pledges are fulfilled. They spoke during the County Executive induction program in Nanyuki, Laikipia County. The induction program that involved Members of the County Executive Committee (CECMs) and Chief Officers included the setting of performance targets and signing of performance contracts by the officers. The contracts detailed timelines for the implementation of various development programs and projects that will be subject to evaluation every three months. Waiguru said that the induction forum was aimed at enabling the senior officials in her administration to come up with goals and performance targets in service delivery. The contracts detail timelines for the implementation of various development programs and projects will be subject to evaluation every three months. Waiguru said that the induction forum was aimed at enabling the senior officials in her administration to come up with goals and performance targets in service delivery. "The County Executive has been here from Monday and we are happy to be joined by the County Assembly so that we can all agree on what we want to be delivered to our Kirinyaga people," the governor said. She said that performance contracts are very important since they hold each of the officers accountable for the realization of their department’s strategic objectives. She added that the performance contracts will allow for monitoring the progress of the implementation of various targets. The governor said that the involvement of the assembly in target setting will enable it to play its oversight roles better and hold the executive accountable for what they have set to deliver. The CoG chair urged the CECMs and Chief Officers to dedicate extra hours to ensure that the set standards came to a reality. "The expectations of the constituents are high, we, therefore, need to dedicate ourselves to public service to uplift the living standards of Kirinyaga people." She Said Speaker Murimi said that the assembly has so far been supportive of the executive. He assured the governor of the harmonious working relationship between the two arms of government. "The two arms of the county government are not in competition but are meant to complement each other to make Kirinyaga shine. Kirinyaga is not an ordinary county since Governor Waiguru has set a very high bar as far as the development agenda is concerned," Murimi said. He said that even though the assembly was in recess, they had to make time to discuss with the executive how to move forward with the county’s development agenda. The speaker affirmed the county assembly’s commitment to addressing any issues that could bring disharmony between the two arms of government. Majority Leader Daniel Kibinga said the performance target will help the assembly in evaluating the performance of the executive and holding the respective officers accountable.