The family of slain LGBTQ activist Edwin Kiprotich Kiptoo alias Chiloba has asked Kenyans to stop spreading false information regarding him on social media. In an interview on Monday with NTV, his cousin Gaudencia Tanui said Chiloba was a God-loving man since his teenage years contrary to the picture of an immoral person being painted about him. "He was a boy with vision. He was a church leader at Sergoit Primary School where he attended. At St Francis Kimuron he was even nicknamed pastor because he was a child of the church," she said. "Haya mambo ambayo tunasikia yakienea social media, wakenya wenzangu tafadhali, muache kueneza mambo ambayo hamuna ukweli na ambayo si ya ubinadamu. Tunaumia kama familia," Gaudencia said. (Those things we are hearing spreading on social media, Kenyans please, stop spreading information you are not sure about and which is not humane. We are suffering as a family) Five suspects have so far been arrested in connection with Chiloba's murder, including one who confessed to being his lover. Jackton Odhiambo confessed to killing the fashionista for allegedly cheating on him. He told police in Eldoret that he murdered the male model as revenge for betraying him. Odhiambo, who was arrested on Friday, said he had been living with Chiloba for a period of one year as husband and wife. But Tanui dismissed the claims that Chiloba was gay. "He was not. Those are things we are seeing on social media. He was a child of the church, he was baptised, he was a leader in YCS in high school. In university, he was a student leader. I don't think anyone can elect someone who does those things," she said. On Monday, a court in Eldoret allowed police to detain Odhiambo and four other suspects as investigations into Chiloba's murder continue. Among the suspects are three minors whom Odhiambo confessed to have executed the murder with. Chiloba was found murdered and his body was stuffed in a metal box and dumped at Hurlingham village near Kipkaren, in the outskirts of Eldoret on January 3. On Sunday, police seized a car suspected to have been used to ferry and dump the body. A postmortem was slated for Monday as the family prepares for burial at Sergoit village in Elgeyo Marakwet county on Saturday, January 14. The family has asked for justice to be done and those responsible for Chiloba's murder jailed. "He died painfully. Imagine having your eyes gouged out and yet our son was a very good child. He could not even harm a fly and did not deserve to be killed like an animal," Tanui said.