The World Health Organisation warns that more than four out of five Cardiovascular disease deaths are due to heart attacks and strokes. A heart attack usually occurs when a blood clot blocks blood flow to the heart. Without blood, tissue loses oxygen and dies. The symptoms according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention include chest pain or discomfort, upper back or neck pain, indigestion, heartburn, nausea or vomiting, extreme fatigue, upper body discomfort, dizziness and shortness of breath. The CDC warns that sometimes heart disease may be “silent” and not diagnosed until a person experiences signs or symptoms of a heart attack, heart failure, or arrhythmia. A heart arrhythmia refers to an irregular heartbeat caused by the failure of electrical signals that coordinate the heartbeat, leading to either slow, too fast or irregular beats. According to Mayo Clinic, an online medical site, some heart attacks strike suddenly, but many people have warning signs hours or days in advance. “A heart attack generally causes chest pain for more than 15 minutes. Some people have mild chest pain, while others have more-severe pain,” it says. “The discomfort is commonly described as a pressure or chest heaviness, although some people have no chest pain or pressure at all. Women tend to have more-vague symptoms, such as nausea or back or jaw pain,” it adds. Mayo Clinic recommends that if you or someone near you suffers a heart attack the first thing you have to do is call a local emergency number. “If you can't get an ambulance or emergency vehicle to come to you, have a neighbour or a friend drive you to the nearest hospital,” it advises. Driving oneself to the hospital is not advised as the situation may worsen putting you in great danger. You are also advised to chew and swallow an aspirin while waiting for emergency help. Aspirin, according to the experts helps keep the blood from clotting and could reduce heart damage. However, you are cautioned not to take the aspirin if you have an allergy to it or have previously been advised by medics to avoid it. You are also advised to begin cardiopulmonary resuscitation if the person is unconscious to keep the blood flowing. CPR is an emergency lifesaving procedure performed when the heart of the person stops beating. “Push hard and fast on the centre of the person's chest in a fairly rapid rhythm about 100 to 120 compressions a minute,” it advises. WHO warns that the most important behavioural risk factors of heart disease and stroke are unhealthy diet, physical inactivity, tobacco use and harmful use of alcohol. According to the global health agency, cessation of tobacco use, reduction of salt in the diet, eating more fruit and vegetables, regular physical activity and avoiding harmful use of alcohol have been shown to reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease.