Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) Noordin Haji has revealed that plans are underway to set up a prosecution training institute that will enhance capacity in tackling transnational organised crime. Speaking on Monday the DPP said that the institute will also be available for African countries as well as help in developing enhanced formal and informal cooperation mechanisms. “It is important for us, as legal practitioners and experts within Africa, to enhance our efforts towards tackling transnational organised crimes,” Haji said. Going further, the DPP emphasised the need to constantly contextualise transnational organised crimes to the African context. “By doing so, we will become more effective in countering and combating transnational organised crime," he said. Haji was speaking in Mombasa during the 16th Annual general meeting and Africa Prosecutors Association Conference. In the event, President William Ruto assured that his government is committed to supporting the criminal justice system. “I have given my commitment and that of the government to support the criminal justice system to ensure it’s not weaponised for political reasons,” he said. He urged prosecutors to remain firm in their line of duty as they are the gatekeepers. “Prosecutors must enhance the credibility of the institution by fiercely asserting their independence, consistently demonstrating fairness and being guided solely by the law,” Ruto said. Noting that prosecutors are occasionally under pressure for other political considerations, Ruto challenged them to make history by not succumbing to impunity and not towing to political convenience. Last month, Ruto said that the criminal justice system reforms should be enhanced. He said this will help catch up with best practices and respond to the "common sense of basic fairness." Delays in cases, he regretted, are more prejudicial than the eventual penalty on conviction. Ruto said the use of technology, alternative resolution, diversion and alternatives to prosecution could help achieve justice without burdening the criminal justice system.