Former Interior CS Fred Matiang’i has been trending on Twitter since the 2022 KCSE results were released on Friday The results have elicited mixed reactions from Kenyans who feel the exams lacked credibility. This made Kenyans revisit the old days when Matiang’i was the education CS and the effort he put in to ensure transparency in the national exams. While some think it is too early to rate the current CS Ezekiel Machogu, some feel Matiang’i set the bar too high for his successor. The results have raised eyebrows as most schools posted unusual mean scores in KCSE results released even as Machogu insisted there was no cheating. "We did come up with a mechanism that accountability was transferred to the personal level," Machogu said. Overall performance in the country had 135,021 students score grade D+, with 70,238 being female and 64,783 male. In the data, students who scored D- were 167,758, equating to 18.99 per cent. The D plain category had a total of 155,480 students while 30,822 students attained grade E. However, Kenyans took to twitter under the hashtag #Matiang’i to express their dissatisfaction with the results and lauded him for what they termed as a credible performance when he was handling the education docket. Here are some of the tweets; “In fact we're wondering how Kisii schools have emerged victorious beating the entire Country. Indeed we're back to square one where Matiang’i and Magoha had brought us from. The education sector is going to become scandalous as it were 15 years ago,” a user by the name of Ingutia Junior wrote. “I think the Real KCSE was done in 2016 under Fred Matiangi! KCSE Class of 2016 really suffered!,” another user by the name Omwmba said. “Matiangi is one of the living uncelebrated heroes. This man reformed everything in the education sector during his tenure,” one Kiptoo wrote. “Hatred aside, Matiangi was the best CS in Uhuru's Government especially when he was under the Ministry of Education I think @WilliamsRuto should consider him and give him last chance in education docket,” Elias Kiptoo wrote. During the tenure of Matiang’i as the education CS, there were only 141 straight A’s compared to 1,146 recorded in 2022. A section of politicians have also raised queries over the just-released KCSE results. On Saturday, Former Mukurweini MP Kabando wa Kabando claimed that the 2022 KCSE results should be disbanded. The former MP said the statistics released by CS Machogu on a particular region was not adding up. “Total disgrace! Many schools' curves in the region statistically don't add up,” Kabando said. Going further, Kabando also called for the disbandment of the Kenya National Examinations Council and an audit should be carried out.