Two candidates in the Elgeyo Marakwet Senatorial by-election race have conceded defeat before tally results are announced by IEBC. Lawyer Tim Kipchumba of the Party for Peace and Development on Thursday night said he had already congratulated UDA's candidate, William Kisang on his win "A few minutes to midnight yesterday, I called Senator Kisang and congratulated him. I assured him of my support as the Senator-elect of Elgeyo Marakwet," he said. Rights Activist Jerotich Seii also conceded early defeat saying those were not the result she hoped for. She however said she will continue to fight on the outside for Wanjiku. "WaKenya, hose weren't the results we had hoped for lakini asiyekubali kushindwa si mshindani (But whoever does not concede defeat  The complex world of politics isn't for jokes," Seii said. The by-election attracted six candidates. They were former Marakwet West MP William Kisang (UDA), Timothy Tanui (The New Democrats), human rights activist Jerotich Seii (Safina), Tim Kipchumba (Party of Peace and Development), lawyer Andrew Mengich (Independent) and a 27-year-old statistician Kelvin Kemboi. The seat became vacant after Kipchumba Murkomen was appointed as Transport Cabinet Secretary by President William Ruto in October 2022. Murkomen and Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei gave their early congratulatory messages to UDA's Kisang. "Congratulations William Kisang on your election as the second senator of Elgeyo Marakwet. Thank you Elgeyo Marakwet residents for honouring Dr William Ruto and the Kenya Kwanza fraternity," Cherargei said. "Congratulations William Kisang on your election as the second Senator of Elgeyo Marakwet. Thank you to the people of Elgeyo Marakwet for having faith in the leadership of Kenya Kwanza by voting in a UDA candidate," Murkomen said. The CS also recognized other candidates, Kipchumba and Seii's efforts they had put in during the campaign. "To my friend @TimKipchumba, I am very confident in your present and future contributions to the community and nation-building. That was a very good fight and your time is coming," Murkomen said. "To the other candidates led by @JerotichSeii, I recognize your hard work and commitment. You have made a significant contribution and you have my support and best wishes going forward. Congrats to all who made the by-elections a success by supporting your respective candidates." IEBC is yet to officially announce the winner.