Quins' head coach Murunga is targeting three wins from their final four matches to qualify for the Kenya Cup playoffs come the end of the season. The former Kenya Sevens and under-20 tactician believes the charges do have momentum after three consecutive wins which have seen them jump to fourth on the log with 19 points. “Right now, we have the momentum and if we can get three wins from our final four matches then we can be in the playoff for the first time in like five years. This will be an achievement for this young side,” added Murunga. Quins have an away tie to Nakuru on February 4 before facing Blak Blad on February 11 at home. They take on Mwamba on February 18 before concluding their group phase fixtures with a tricky tie against last season's losing semifinalists Strathmore Leos on February 25. The tactician said he was happy with the improvement in the forward play during the 28-11 win over his former side Homeboyz on Saturday at the RFUEA ground. “Since the turn of the year, our scrum lineout and maul defense has been excellent and that laid the platform for the victory against Homeboyz,” noted Murunga The Ngong Road side received a major boost from Minet Kenya Insurance Brokers Limited who have forked out Sh1.8 million as medical cover for the team. Murunga added that insights from his former coaching days at Homeboyz played a part in the victory. “I know Homeboyz like the back of my palm. They still have the structure I left with them back in 2018 and that is why we are able to know each player's moves,” said Murunga. KCB top the standings with 35 points followed closely by Menengai Oilers with 34 points. Champions Kabras are third on 30 points though they have played game less. Quins are placed fourth with 19 points with Homeboyz joint fifth with 14 points alongside Mwamba. Winless Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology are bottom of the log with three points. Catholic University Monks and Mean Machine are 10th and 11 on 10 and seven points respectively.