Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua has emphasized that the government is fully committed to the creation of job opportunities. On Wednesday, the Chinese Chamber of Commerce Chairman  William Zhuo paid the DP a courtesy call at Harambee House Annex where the creation of job opportunities topped the agenda. "We discussed cross-cutting and priority investment opportunities in Kenya in the broad areas of manufacturing, ICT, and the automobile industry,” Gachagua said. The DP stated that the Kenya Kwanza Administration under President William Ruto is committed to growing foreign direct investments, which will, in turn, create job opportunities and the growth of our economy. “This is with a focus on the realisation of our aspiration,” Gachagua added. The Kenya Kwanza government has pledged to create employment for youths. Last month, President Ruto highlighted a number of ways the government will create jobs for youths. Ruto announced that he had invested heavily in the digital infrastructure by planning to construct an extra 100,000 kilometres of national fibre optic connectivity. The government also launched an initiative dubbed the Kenya Youth Employment and Entrepreneurship Accelerator Programme to create employment. Through K-YEEAP, one million youths will be employed next year. The government further plans to scale up cultural production and creative economy by appointing accomplished Kenyan artists and creative sector personalities as cultural ambassadors. The intervention will help create employment for youths in the creative industry. The government also seeks to push the passing of the Creative Economy Bill that will enable the establishment of a film fund. The Film Fund is expected to support the creative industry under a plan to add value to Kenya’s exports. Last month, Gachagua revealed that employment creation is the way to make friends with his boss, President William Ruto. “Many people ask me all the time, how I become a friend of President Ruto. My answer is very simple, just create five jobs,” he said.