Leadership wrangles in Meru county between Governor Kawira Mwangaza and the County Assembly may have been put to rest for good following the intervention of the country's top leadership. Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua on Thursday said he concluded conciliatory talks with the warring factions of the county's leadership whose working relationship has been frosty over the past few months. "I first engaged the MPs and the Senator, Hon. Kathuri Murungi, who is also the deputy speaker of the senate, followed with a sitting with Members of the County Assembly," Gachagua said in a statement. He revealed that he had earlier in the day held a "fruitful engagement" with Mwangaza as part of the reconciliatory efforts. "We discussed various issues raised by all the teams in the county and the need to foster peace and a conducive work environment for service delivery in the county," he said. Mwangaza's political career was nearly brought to a halt after 67 MCA on November 22 voted to impeach her over gross misconduct, abuse of office and violation of the Constitution. The first-term governor was, however, saved from the axe by Senate's Special Committee on December 30, 2022. "After the consideration of charges made against Meru Governor Kawira Mwangaza, all 11 members of the Special Senate Committee agreed and recommended that none of the charges was proved," committee chairman Boni Khalwale said while tabling the report in Parliament. "As far as the matter of impeachment of Governor Kawira Mwangaza, that matter is now put to rest," he affirmed. The MCAs had mounted a spirited fight to remove the governor from office after they cited a total of 62 Constitutional violations against her. They included nepotism, illegal appointments, incitement, bullying, vilification and misleading campaigns against the Catholic church and other leaders. Kawira denied all the charges and said she was a victim of blackmail from the MCAs after she refused to approve a Ward Fund. Gachagua on Sunday expressed optimism that the wrangles in Meru county would soon be a thing of the past after he met the Meru MCAs and MPs in a bid to reconcile Mwangaza and other leaders in the county. He said after the meeting that there is progress as the MCAs had expressed willingness to solve the wrangles for the sake of their people. “I'm optimistic that a way forward will be found following the intervention and the county will be back on track,” Gachagua said further stating that he would reach out to Mwangaza for follow-up intervention.