Narok MCAs have been accused of failing to execute their mandate effectively by not providing oversight to Governor Patrick Ntutu’s administration. Senator Ledama Ole Kina said it is unfortunate that the MCAs have resorted to 'go to bed’ with the governor instead of keeping the county executive in check. Speaking to the journalists in Nairobi on Friday, Ledama said the county assembly should ensure that public funds are not misappropriated by interrogating the projects, which are currently being undertaken by the county administration. “It is totally wrong for the governor to start using MCAs to fight me whenever I raise issues, which if not unchecked may lead to loss of public funds. Unfortunately, our MCAs have failed on that mandate,” Ledama said. The senator said he is aware the county boss has been meeting with MCAs severally, with a mission to castigate him following his hard stand on the use of public resources. He, however, told the ward representatives he is ready to work closely with all of them by ensuring they put the executive to account, to avoid loss of public resources. “Recently, I made it clear that the establishment of the ward development fund is unconstitutional. However, some MCAs started fighting me saying I'm against development in the county. The truth of the matter is that fund does not exist in the law,” Ledama said. The senator cited an incident where he alleged the governor issued two tenders to two sister company worth Sh1.6 billion, without following process of the law. “This is totally an illegality. They should have followed the Public Procurement Act,” he said. Ledama added that he will work round the clock to ensure the tenders are cancelled unless they follow the due process of the law and the move is projected in the budget. “If such incidents continue to be witnessed in the counties, we may be forced to change laws on the accounting officers and make sure that all those responsible for tenders account for the funds,” he said. The lawmaker said they have summoned the governor, speaker and county assembly to Senate next week. They will appear before the Senate Public Account Committee to answer queries touching on the county. The senator further called on President William Ruto to ensure that he cracks the whip on corrupt governors especially those elected under UDA tickets. “It is sad that those county bosses are saying that the new administration is their government and those in opposition should stop poking holes in their leadership especially when we raise integrity issues against them,” he said. Ledama said he might disagree with the Head of State on ideologies but he will work with him closely by ensuring those who engage in corrupt deeds face the law. However, in a quick rejoinder, Narok MCAs said Ledama is currently opposed to everything the county government plans and does simply because his involvement in the processes has been limited, as opposed to his first term. "He has become anti-development and his plan is to deny the people of Narok the much needed reprieve especially now that we are facing dire economic times," majority leader Dominic Sonkoi said. He added that the senator has been critical of the involvement of Narok MCAs with the executive especially on development and planning. "As MCAs of Narok, our involvement on the plans and projects being undertaken by the executive is critical. Our oversight roles do not begin and end within the county assembly precincts," he said. "We are not barred from moving to the field to participate, keep an eye on and monitor the projects as they are being executed. There is no law that stops MCAs from their oversight roles within or without the county assembly." The Olulunga ward representative further said that the CIDP process has enabled them as MCAs to fully participate in identifying key projects from their areas. "The CIDP is a document that is anchored in law. Public participation is a process that is anchored in law. By participating in it's development, we are doing so both as the elected representatives of the people and as part of the oversight role that the Constitution bestows on us, " he said. Sonkoi further said on matters procurement, what Ledama is raising in his statements is neither here nor there. "Procurement of the machinery in question was factored in the supplementary budget and duly approved by the county assembly. As of this moment the procurement process is ongoing as per the provisions of the Procurement Act," he said.