Many students across the country posted excellent performances in their KCPE and KCSE exams, indicating how resilient and hardworking they were. Despite the cheating claims, schools have been rising above the odds, all in the name of improving their mean grades. With that in mind, parents have consciously been preparing for the transitioning of their children to either secondary schools or colleges. Sadly, the financial crisis continues to be a major blow that is thwarting the plans of parents who want to see their children pursue their dream careers. Those students wallowing in abject poverty have found it hard to raise funds and requisite resources required to continue with their education. Our bad state of the economy coupled with huge debts and high taxation has seen the government channel billions every year to finance the debts. This has created a warlike environment in the country, whereby the common mwananchi is struggling to earn everyday. Consequently, parents who are unable to raise school fees have resolved to apply for bursary funds offered by the county governments. But to their surprise, tribalism and nepotism have not been fully stamped out as only a few students benefit from those funds. A feature story titled ‘Needy students rise above the odds to thrive in KCPE’ published in the Star Newspaper, on January 27 highlighted the sorry state of KCPE students who passed with flying colors but are unable to join their secondary level of education due to lack of funds and support. In a bid to ensure they don’t miss out, they have joined hands with their parents in hustling by all means. Bright but vulnerable, they have opted to do casual jobs that are sustaining them. Some raise for as low as Sh50 per day. Raised by single mothers, who are also hardworking on their part, they have claimed their responsibilities as parents, and are trying to fulfill each at a time. Unfortunately, some are farmers who get fewer profits from farming, while others are working in tea firms as casual laborers. Before his sudden demise, former Education CS George Magoha ensured smooth transition from primary to secondary schools. At the Ministry of Education, he continued with reforms that saw the highest number of students join secondary schools. He championed education for everyone. Last year, Shining Hope for Communities (Shofco), a non-governmental organization known for its community and charity work, sponsored more than 2,000 students in more than 10 counties. Needy students that benefited from their program were from, Nairobi, Nyeri, Kisii, Homa Bay, Siaya, Kisumu, Kakamega, Kilifi, Mombasa, Kwale, Kiambu, Nakuru, and Uasin Gishu counties. The Family Group Foundation also scaled up its secondary school scholarship kitty to Sh60 million for needy students. The 2023 scholarship programme has benefitted 290 students from 32 counties. Since 2012, the foundation has awarded high school scholarships to more than 1,000 beneficiaries countrywide and invested over Sh250 million in the education sector. This has saved very many students from miseries as those funds are for their upkeep, paying their tuition and accommodation fees. Despite all these efforts, other needy students from far-flung areas still miss such fortunes due to neglect. The frustrated ones have indulged in crime. Acting fast by investing more in the education sector will save our future generation. Maxwell Kamau is a writer and a journalism student at Rongo University