A girls’ school in Kajiado county pulled a surprise result in the just released KCSE after posting a mean score of 6.4. Kimana Girls High School attained a mean score of 6.4 in the 2022 KCSE, a remarkable improvement from  3.6 in 2021. The school had been docked by pregnancies as students could walk in and out of the schools as they wanted with no limitation from teachers. Two students scored B, 19 had a B-, while 43 scored a C+. However, the results did not surprise the new head of the school, Catherine Mwaniki, who was transferred there barely 7 months before the examinations. She was transferred to Kimana Girls from a school in Nandi county to come tackle the situation of indiscipline and pregnancies after an outcry from parents and education officials. On arrival, Mwaniki discovered what was ailing the school and made recommendations for some teachers to be transferred, as well as introduced new guidelines that teachers saw as “punishment”. Resistance from a few teachers did not deter the new principal from vouching for the desired excellence. “There was so much resistance from a section of teachers that I recommended their transfer. Thereafter, we moved on with those who saw the need to help these girls to achieve the best marks," Mwaniki said. Upon her arrival at the school, the Principal said she saw nothing wrong with the students but noted that the rules in the institution were weak. “Girls could just walk out of the school and come back when they wish. I said that will never happen under my watch. I created more time for studies for my girls and by working closely with my teachers, we have delivered something better,” Mwaniki said. In spirit of teamwork, Mwaniki said she will work with teachers and students to improve the next results to between a mean score of 7 and 8. “I have the support of the board of management, parents and teachers and together we can move mountains. My girls in the school are happy that we have broken the ice in achieving better results than the previous years,” she said. Looking at how other schools performed, Moi Girls Isinya had 10 students who scored A- in the KCSE. The school achieved a mean grade of 8.09 — an improvement from 7.902 in 2021. Out of a population of 266 students who sat for the exam, 229 have attained a direct university entry. At Olkejuado High School, a mean grade of 6.7 was scored. Three out of 337 students who sat for the examination attained A-, while 14 scored B+. The school performed best in computer studies with a mean grade of A-. Oloolaiser High School, which has been leading over the years, scored a mean grade of 8.7 in 2022 KCSE, a remarkable improvement from 7.8 in 2021. At least 92.2 per cent of its students attained a minimum of C+ required for direct university entry.