Homa Bay government has approved by signing and sealing of charters to create four new municipalities to enhance the growth of towns in the county. The towns such as Kendu Bay, Ndhiwa, Mbita and Oyugis will now be operating as municipalities and are expected to witness growth due to their autonomies. Homa Bay town municipality was created in the previous administration. Governor Gladys Wanga said some of the towns have recorded a rapid rise in population as people migrate from rural to urban centres. She said failure to expand infrastructure including water supply, power, roads and sewerage has led the dwellers to face many challenges. “The steady rise in population in these towns and inadequate resources make it difficult for people to live in them. Elevation of the towns to municipalities makes them autonomous and they can get investors and donor funding for growth,” Wanga said. Speaking during the signing and sealing of the charters at her offices on Monday, the governor said the creation of the municipalities has positioned Homa Bay as a county that can attract investors to promote urbanisation. She said the new municipalities were created with all due laws being followed including abiding by Towns and Urban Act. The exercise was overseen by Homa Bay county assembly clerk Faith Apuko, speaker Julius Gaya, county secretary Bernard Muok, Majority leader Richard Ogindo and MCA Nicholas Owaka. Part of the process involved the formation of an Ad hoc committee at the county assembly which conducted public participation in the formation of the new boundaries. She said public participation was conducted and the committee ensured proper delineation before drafting the charter and taking it to the county assembly. The county assembly then approved the charter bill which was signed by the governor. Previously, Homa Bay-based lobby group had opposed the creation of the municipalities on grounds that they were not done procedurally. They filed petitions in court and stopped the process. This also affected the creation of the Homa Bay Municipal Board which was eventually disbanded after the activists moved to court on grounds that it was irregularly constituted. “All procedures were followed before approving these towns to municipalities. We want our people to support what is meant for development and improving their living standards,” she said. After signing and sealing the charters, the executive and the county assembly will move to the new municipalities to present the documents to residents. It will also create job opportunities for residents who will work on municipal boards. The county government will soon advertise for positions which Wanga encouraged residents to apply for. “This is one of the achievements we have made in the shortest time. We’re hopeful that Homa Bay will realize growth,” she said. Gaya said the assembly did what members think is best for the people of Homa Bay. He said the chatters will create a lot of opportunities while developing the county. “Towns will expand to create a whole urban area. I ask for public support in the process,” Gaya said.