Primary schools were able to download and print Grade 6 assessment results that were both school-specific and individual. The council made available the results from January 17, a week before the opening of the first term. The results are expected to come in three reports, however, it's not yet clear if the national report is out. A teacher from Kakamega said they have already downloaded their results. "We have seen the areas which had difficulties and have seen that most sciences had a problem, we will work on that," the teacher told the Star. This follows recommendations by the education review team that sought to do away with KPSEA as a placement tool for Grade 7. A sample individual report seen by the Star has three levels of performance. “English language- exceeding expectations, Kiswahili Lugha- meeting expectations and Mathematics – approaching expectations,” the report reads. The report has been broken down into five clusters, which include 10 main subject areas. This means the results will not be used to determine which school a learner is enrolled in now that they will remain in primary school. The examinations council, therefore, decided to use the results to assess the progress of the Competency-Based Curriculum. This means the results will not be used to determine which school a learner is enrolled in now that they will remain in primary school. "It will guide teachers on strands that require intervention in teaching and learning," Knec CEO David Njengere said. The report has been broken down into Individual Learners Report, School Specific Report, and a National Report on School Based Assessment and Summative Assessment. The national report will be used to provide feedback to education stakeholders on areas that require intervention. "The report will indicate the proportion of learners at each of the permanence levels per subject and strand," he said. Njengere said school-specific reports will have their scope limited to individual schools. The learners will also get Individual learners' reports that will indicate the learner's performance level in specific subjects or strands. "This will include acquisition of values and core competencies and performance level in specific subjects," Njengere said. With TSC, Njengere said the results will help identify areas where teachers have been struggling to deliver. Even with the ongoing teachers’ professional development, TSC will be able to pull weight on specific areas that need adjustment. “We will inform TSC of specific areas where teachers are struggling to deliver in the curriculum,” he said. For instance, if the results show most learners had issues comprehending cooking, then TSC will have to inculcate that in their training. In the report, the stakeholders said KPSEA will be used to monitor learning progress. "It will be used as an assessment to monitor learning progress and provide feedback to education sector players on areas that require intervention," the report reads. The role of the Ministry of Education will be pegged on equity, access to education, and the general running of the CBC.