Teens of Hope FC and Musokoto maintained their winning streak in the Football Kenya Federation (FKF) Busia county league that entered round two last weekend. In Zone B, Teens of Hope whitewashed Nasewa 5-0 at Nambale AC grounds with Eddy Bahati and Gilbert Aballa scoring a brace each and Rawlings Kariakor accounting for the fifth goal. The runaway leaders started the season on a sound note, trouncing Lwanyange 4-1. They top the chart with six points from two matches. Simuli Youths, Labour, Young Tigers and Khwilare are joint second but separated by goal difference in that order. In Zone A, Musokoto won their second consecutive match after edging Kifaru 1-0 with Reuben Cherule scoring the lone goal in the second half. The win saw Musokoto maintain the top position in the league standings with six points from two encounters. They had beaten Kamolo 2-0 in the season opener. Kamuriai FC, Kekalet and Kabkara are joined second with four points from two matches apiece. Kamolo occupy the fifth spot with three points from a similar number of matches. In other Zone 'A' matches, visiting Kekalet stunned FC Machakusi 2-0 at Machakusi Primary School with goals from Philip Oriang'i (own goal, 43rd minute) and Cleophas Ekisa in the 77th minute, in the match officiated by Division one referee, Bonke Paul Okumu assisted by Joab Makokha and Shadrack Simiyu. At Kabkara Primary grounds, hosts Kabkara silenced Kiriko 1-0 with the solitary goal netted by Dan Kibet. Kamuriai trounced Bocar Junior 3-1 at Kamuriai Primary School while Moding drew 2-2 with Aboloi at Moding Primary grounds. Akobwait and Katakwa drew 1-1 at Changara Primary School while Kamolo beat Katelenyang' 2-0 at Kamolo Primary grounds with second-half goals from Collins Wandera (penalty) and lethal striker, Eugene Okello Omudek. In other Zone B matches, Simuli Youths overcame Murende Highlanders 4-1, Bumala Allstars and Young Tigers drew 2-2, Labour beat Lwanyange 2-1 as Mabale and Khwilare battled to a 1-1 draw at Busia Stadium.