Elgeyo Marakwet Senator-elect William Kipsang will be sworn on Thursday. Kisang won the seat in a by-election held on January 5, after garnering 41,378 votes on a UDA ticket. He defeated Tim Kipchumba of the PPD party who emerged second with 38,151 votes. The seat fell vacant after former Senator Kipchumba Murkomen was appointed Transport Cabinet Secretary by President William Ruto in October 2022. In a gazette notice on Wednesday, Senate Speaker Amason Kingi has recalled senators for a special sitting on Thursday where Kipsang will be sworn in. “The business to be transacted at the sittings shall be the swearing-in of William Kipkemoi Kisang, the Senator-elect for Elgeyo Marakwet County and the consideration of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (Amendment) Bill, 2022 (National Assembly Bills No 49 of 2022),” Kingi said in the notice. “In accordance with Standing Order 33 (5) of the Senate Standing Orders, the business specified in this Notice shall be the only business before the Senate during the special sittings." The seat attracted another four candidates— Safina party's Jerotich Seii, independent candidates Andrew Mengich and Kelvin Kemboi and Timothy Tanui of the New Democrats Party. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (Amendment) Bill, 2022, seeks to change the composition of the IEBC selection panel. The panel will conduct the recruitment of IEBC commissioners following the retirement and resignation of the poll agency officials. Ruto’s troops are fast-tracking the amendment to the IEBC Act to change the composition of the selection panel ahead of the declaration of the vacancy at the commission. Chebukati and commissioners Boya Molu and Abdi Guliye retired on Tuesday after serving a six-year non-renewal term as provided for in the constitution. Commissioners Juliana Cherera, Justus Nyang'aya and Francis Wanderi resigned in the wake of their suspension and formation of a tribunal to investigate their conduct in the August 9, 2022, general election. Section 7A (2) of the IEBC Act provides that the President shall declare a vacancy in the commission within seven days of the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of the chairperson or a member of the commission.