Isiolo Governor Abdi Hassan Guyo has said he will work with President William Ruto despite Azimio's declaration that it does not recognise the government. Speaking in Garbatula on Saturday, the governor, who was a staunch campaigner for the Azimio leader Raila Odinga, distanced himself from the declaration and said Isiolo leaders who were elected on Jubilee Party ticket will work with Ruto’s government. “Time for politics ended in August 2022. It's now time to bring services to our people in Isiolo,” Guyo said. During last week’s Kamukunji rally, Odinga said he does not recognise Ruto's 'illegitimate' presidency and his government, maintaining that the 2022 presidential poll was marred with irregularities. Odinga, who had returned to the country from South Africa, called on Kenyans to resist the Kenya Kwanza government, which he said conned their way into leadership. He demanded that the Kenya Kwanza government resigns, saying they neither have the mandate nor the ability to govern the country. “We as Azimio reject the 2022 election results. We cannot and will not recognise the Kenya Kwanza regime and consider the Kenya Kwanza government illegitimate. We don’t recognise William Ruto as the President,” Odinga said. He insisted that he won the 2022 elections with over two million votes, citing an alleged dossier released by an unnamed whistleblower. However, in what seems like a veiled attack on the Azimio boss, the former Matopeni ward MCA and Nairobi county assembly leader of majority said it was prudent for leaders to accept defeat when they lose in elections. “In an election, just like a race, there is a winner and a loser. There can’t be two winners. To move Kenya forward , losers of the August 2022 polls should accept and work together with the government,” Guyo said. Guyo is the only governor elected on a Jubilee Party ticket out of the 47 county bosses. He called on all leaders who lost in the 2022 general elections to support the winners and wait for the next election instead of mere politicking. In what seems like a veiled attack on the Azimio boss, the former Matopeni ward MCA and Nairobi county assembly leader of the majority said that it was prudent for leaders to accept defeat when they lose in elections. Jubilee reaped major victories in Isiolo with Guyo becoming governor, Fatuma Dullo winning the senatorial contest and Mumina Bonaya the Woman Rep race. Joseph Samal won the Isiolo North MP race while Mohamed Tubi became Isiolo South MP. Governor Guyo said his government is ready to work with President Ruto. He said the interests of Isiolo residents would always come first before any political alignment. “President Ruto is a good friend of mine and despite political alignments, Kenya has a new president and as the Governor I need to put the interest of the Isiolo people first,” Guyo said.