The Teachers Service Commission has invited applications for suitably qualified teachers for various positions in line with the Career Progression Guidelines. The commission has further invited applications for the chairperson and member of the Audit Committee, an organ which reviews financial statements and reports. In an advert on local dailies, the commission asked qualified persons to apply for four vacancies for chief principal-Teacher Training Colleges. It further advertised for 13,713 positions for principals, deputy principals, senior masters, secondary teachers, head teachers and deputy head teachers in secondary and primary schools. The commission also announced 1,021 vacancies for teachers to be deployed as principals, deputy principals, head teachers and deputy head teachers in Arid and Semi-Arid Lands and Hard-to-Staff counties. It named the Asals and Hard-to-Staff counties as Baringo, Garissa, Homa Bay, Isiolo, Kajiado, Kilifi Kitui, Kwale, Lamu, Madera, Marsabit, Narok, Samburu, Taita Taveta, Tana River, Turkana, Wajir and West Pokot. “Applicants for vacancies in Asal and Hard-to-Staff counties shall be required to upload the letter of deployment to the current responsibility during application,” the commission said. TSC introduced the CPG for teachers in 2017. The CPG outlines the minimum requirements for teachers’ employment and promotion. It also spells out the new grading structures for teachers and their respective salary scales. The document replaced the scheme of service for teachers. The commission has already announced that it intends to hire 30,000 teachers before schools open in January. The recruitment is expected to address the shortage of teachers in both primary and secondary schools. The commission is facing a shortage of 116,000 across the country. There is a 68,000 deficit in secondary schools among the 116,000. TSC has been employing 5,000 teachers every year, so the recruitment of 30,000 teachers is expected to boost the education sector. Tutors who have remained jobless the longest will get the first priority while those already serving as interns in secondary schools will automatically be absorbed. TSC announced that those who qualified as teachers in 2010 or before and have not been in employed by the commission will score an automatic 60 per cent.