World Health Organization (WHO) has called on governments and partners to make sustainable interventions supported by funding to control Neglected Tropical Diseases(NTDs) Who Country Representative in Kenya Abdourahmane Diallo noted that they believe investing sustainably in NTDs elimination will give the best returns because it is an investment in reducing poverty thus allowing people to live dignified and productive lives. Diallo noted that they must act together to shine a spotlight on NTDs and the suffering they cause, and provide comprehensive and universal care for those affected by them, saying it's their collective responsibility. Doing this, he said, entails giving the affected access to medicines, and diagnostics and being innovative in order to alleviate their pain. “We must integrate health services so that NTD interventions tackle challenges across the sectors like education, Agriculture-nutrition, water, animal health and environmental health." He was speaking in Kisumu in a speech read on his behalf by NTDs Adviser at the Country’s office Joyce Onsongo during the commemoration of the World NTD day 2023. Diallo said NTDs are widespread in the world’s poorest regions, where water safety, sanitation and access to health care are less than optimal. NTDs affect over 1 billion people globally and are caused by a variety of pathogens including viruses, bacteria, parasites, fungi, and toxins. These diseases he said are “neglected” because they are almost absent from the global health agenda, receive little funding and are associated with stigma and social exclusion. “They are diseases of neglected populations and perpetuate a cycle of poor educational outcomes and limited professional opportunities”. WHO, Diallo said indeed commends the Government of Kenya’s committed journey towards the eradication of NTDs, in alignment with the NTD 2030 road map. This includes the efforts made in the last 10 years through the implementation of the two NTD strategic documents ( 2011-2015) (2016-2020) and now the country is ready to launch the third generation NTD master Plan 2023-2027. “I want to reiterate that the World Health Organization will continue to support the Ministry of Health in all ways possible, as we make the necessary steps in achieving key NTD milestones towards ending NTD by 2030 at the same time not relenting on eliminating diseases that cause a lot of suffering citizens." The affected people Diallo said are not just numbers but are someone’s family member here, in our communities, villages, and neighbourhood. NTDs he said are not hidden among us, they are there and we must be the voice of the voiceless -of millions, those affected by these diseases from our country and must always continue to act together. WHO reports ( 2030) released today indicate globally that the number of people requiring NTD interventions fell by 80 million people between 2020 and 2021 and 8 countries were certified or validated as having eliminated one NTD in 2022 alone. It also stated that as of December 2022, 47 countries had eliminated at least one NTD and a number of other countries are in the process of achieving this target, this means that from 2021, 25% fewer people required interventions against NTDs than in 2010, and more than one billion people were treated each year between 2016 and 2019 through mass treatment interventions. “It is good progress. Yet It is an encouraging journey towards a World free of NTDs ". Therefore, WHO will continue its technical and financial support to the government in order to implement its NTD Master Plan and together with many other partners, will contribute to the overall goal of a nation where our people do not have to suffer from this continuous cycle of suffering and poverty. The implementation of the NTD roadmap 2030 Diallo said entails togetherness at national, county, and stakeholders partnerships with the community.