@Alicewangechi Former Murang’a governor Mwangi wa Iria has hit out at a section of Kikuyu elders for asking former president Uhuru Kenyatta to pass the Central Kenya kingship to Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua. On New Year’s eve, a section of the Kikuyu council of elders made the calls during a prayer meeting held at Ol-Kalou arboretum in Nyandarua county. The elders also plan to reconcile the two leaders to pave way for a smooth handing over of cultural instruments of leadership. The instruments were handed to Uhuru in 2012, just before he was voted in for his first term. They include a traditional mace, seat, hat, knife, bag, sword, whisk, garment, sandals, needle and a tweezer. The two leaders fell out during the rigorous campaigns that preceded last year’s general election, which saw the region split its support for Uhuru. But Wa Iria has dismissed the calls by the elders as the highest form of self-centredness. “Those doing so must be reminded that even President William Ruto never declared himself a kingpin when the President Moi was alive,” he said. “Actually, Ruto defended Moi to the last minute from people who wanted to dethrone him. My friend Gachagua needs to be mitigated in his leadership ambition.” According to Wa Iria, Uhuru should remain the kingpin until he finds it fit to transfer the instruments of power. “Uhuru became a Kingpin before he was elected president in 2013 and that had nothing to do with his ascendancy to presidency. Kingpinship has nothing to do with electoral affairs or ones’ pecking order in government, it's about their cultural contribution and leadership,” he said. Wa Iria called on Kikuyu elders led by Council of Elders chairperson Wachira Kiago and Kiama Kia Ma chairperson Ndung'u Gaithuma to clarify on what should happen to prevent further division of residents. Wa Iria who is the leader of Usawa Kwa Wote party has been clamoring for the kingpinship of the region and against Gachagua. The former governor who served for two terms has also announced plans to vie for the presidency in 2027. His attempts to vie for the position last year hit a snag after he was disqualified by the IEBC. He has however, vowed to block any loopholes that may be used to block him from the ballot in 2027.