An emotional mood engulfed Kipsigiryo village in the Konoin sub-county of Bomet as Emmanuel Kipkirui, who was crushed to death by a tea-plucking machine was laid to rest on Tuesday. Emmanuel,8, was hit by a single harvesting machine at James Finlays Company Cheptabes Estate plantation farm on January 16, 2023. He is the third-born child of Fredrick Kiplangat Terer and Judith Chepkemoi Terer. The young boy was a brother to Cynthia Chebet Terer and the late Brendah Chepkorir. Before meeting his death, Emmanuel was scheduled to join Grade three at Cheptabes Primary School. In a tribute paid by his elder sister, Cynthia Chebet says it is really hard to lose someone special they love and hardly seems believable that he is no longer with them. "You left us far too early before your time, it seems and you will have no chance to fulfil all those dreams," reads part of the special tribute to the son. She also said that they will continue to cherish the memories they have and the happiness he brought to them. Former Konoin parliamentary aspirant Eng Simon Chirchir called on James Finlay's company to support the family even after the burial of the boy. "The family has undergone hard times and the company need to support this period they are grieving," Chirchir said. He urged the tea companies to ensure the safety of the people especially when it comes to the operations of the machines. He said as the locals they will not fight technology introduced by multi-national companies by opposing the tea plucking machines but there is a need for a balance between the machines and human power. Geoffrey Maritim, who works at James Finlay company headquarter, said the death of the boy occurred after the boy wanted to know how the tea plucking machines operate. Nahashon Too, manager of Cheptabes tea estate, who read the company managing director Simeon Hutchinson's statement, said the incident came to them as a shock. "The boy was young vibrant and full of life. He will be dearly missed. As we lay him to rest today, please know that we share in your grief and send you and your entire family our heartfelt condolences," said the company. Too said the company is offering full support to the family, the wider community and their colleagues who witnessed the accident. He added that the safety of everyone is a priority when they are undertaking their business. "In accordance with our Health and Safety procedure, we immediately reviewed the operation of self-propelled harvesters on our estates and urgently investigated to understand how the incident occured," Too said.