Kenya Police coach Patrick Mugambi has promised fireworks when his charges take on Premier League champions Butali Warriors in the final match of the season at City Park Stadium on Sunday. The law enforcers, who are placed third on the log with 37 points, are under pressure to secure the remaining automatic slot for the Africa Club Championship that will be staged in Nairobi mid next month. Unbeaten champions Butali have 48 points, 10 ahead of Western Jaguars, who have played all their matches for the season. The former league champions face a must-win situation against the sugar millers who have won the past four consecutive league titles. Mugambi said Butali are still beatable and has prevailed upon his charges to put in a gear shift in their quest for international experience. "We are under immense pressure. Fate lies in our own hands and that means we have to beat Butali by all means. A draw will not help considering Jaguars have a better goal difference," said Mugambi. "Sunday will be a different ball game altogether. We are going to give them a run for their money. I hope my attack will turn up in style." Police came from two goals down to salvage a point in a 2-2 thrilling draw in the first leg. Meanwhile, Jaguars coach Mike Malungu said they are hoping the match goes in their favour. "I am not saying Police beating Butali will be a tall order but it's Police who have to get maximum points to overtake us. A draw will favour Jaguars but the matter is beyond our control," said Malundu. "If we had won against Wazalendo, we would not be discussing this now. That defeat will prove costly should Police beat Butali. However, irrespective of what happens, we have achieved our targets for the season. We have also met the contractual obligation with our sponsor." Kenya was granted the rights to host the continent's premier club competition by Africa Hockey Federation between February 13 and 19 at the Kenton College in Kileleshwa. Kenya last hosted the championships in 2016 at the City Park Stadium.