The Prime Cabinet Secretary Musalia Mudavadi has called on the political leadership of the larger Western Kenya region to unite for development. He called on the region’s leaders to rally behind the Kenya Kwanza administration for the region to benefit fully from the national government's economic agenda. He spoke in Busia, during a meeting with elders drawn from the counties of Kakamega, Bungoma, Busia, Vihiga and Trans Nzoia. Mudavadi made it clear that there will be no progress in terms of development for the region if the people don’t unite and work towards achieving a common goal. He said the Western region has lagged behind and wasted so much time as a result of differences brought about by opposing political stands and ideologies. “Poverty in Western Kenya region is now at an alarming stage. You can refer to the statistics from the Kenya National Bureau Statistics and the numbers are telling a sad story. Recently I realized that poverty in Western Kenya is now visible from the skies as compared to our neighbouring regions of Nyanza and Rift Valley. This is a serious issue that requires collective attention and interventions.” Mudavadi said. He has asked the people of Western Kenya to take stock of where they want to place the region on the map of Kenya in terms of economic growth and sustainability in reference to other regions. “Politics and resource allocation go hand in hand. This calls for a mechanism on how to use political influence to manage resources and advance development projects for any region.” Mudavadi said the time for politicking was long gone and it is now time for work. He added that the Western Kenya region will adopt a 3-agenda approach which will focus on Growth, Equity and Sustainability in order to grow the region economically. Busia Governor Paul Otuoma who was present said it was time the community formulates a way that will have all of them aligned towards one goal. “I am ready to work with the government through the stewardship of our elder brother the Prime Cabinet Secretary Musalia Mudavadi to come up with ways that will ensure the economic revival of the Western Kenya region,” he said. During the meeting, Mudavadi was crowned a member of the Western Kenya Region Council of elders.