Tusker FC right-back Isaac Kipyegon headlines the list of 15 players who have been suspended by the Football Kenya Federation over match-fixing allegations. In a letter signed by the chief executive officer, Barry Otieno on Friday, FKF said they had initiated inquiries into the suspects' actions with immediate effect. Zoo Kericho, a previous member of the Kenya Premier League, is the team most adversely impacted, with six of their former players making the list. “Football Kenya Federation has received confidential reports alleging the involvement of various players and officials in match-fixing activities,” the statement read in part. “To protect the integrity of the league, in line with the Federation’s zero-tolerance policy match-fixing, the Federation has with immediate effect provisionally suspended the  individuals pending the investigations of the matter by the FIFA & FKF’s integrity department." The list includes Willis Ochieng Oganyo (Coach-Zetech University), Hamidu Kwizera Lucas (former player Zoo FC), Vincent Misikhu (former player Zoo FC), Sammy Sindani Sabiri (Silibwet Leons FC), Michael Idovolo Madoya (former player Nairobi City Stars) and Johnstone Ligare (former player Zoo FC). Others are Geoffrey Gichana (Zoo FC), Dominic Ouma Okoth (Kericho Rovers FC), Isaac Kipyegon (Tusker FC)Stanislausus Akiya Munyasa (Silibwet Leons FC), William Odunga (Silibwet Leons), Daniel Kiptoo (former player Zoo FC) and Brian Lumumba (Zoo FC). Monde Selenga Mangili (head coach of Kericho FC), Dennis Monda (former Player of Vihiga United) are also under scrutiny. “All FKF members are advised to avoid any form of sporting contact with the aforementioned individuals during their suspension period,” read the letter further. Zoo suffered a deadly blow in July last year after the world football governing body, FIFA relegated them from the National Super League. The setback was the third in a series of hiccups experienced by the club most recently. In April 2021, Fifa demoted Zoo from the Kenyan Premier League over match-fixing allegations. They went ahead and featured in the National Super League in the ongoing 2021/22 season, a move Fifa has now attributed to misinterpretation of its initial ruling. "The decision to sanction Zoo FC is related to a series of (KPL) matches deemed to have been manipulated between 2018 and 2020 by individuals belonging to the club, as a consequence of which the club has been held responsible for the behavior of its members," read Fifa's letter in part. Fifa has also slapped Zoo with an Sh6m fine payable in 30 days, a failure to which the club will be subjected to a transfer ban and be locked out of any competitions both locally and internationally. Fifa Disciplinary Committee in a letter dated said Zoo attracted the fine after failing to comply in full with the decision rendered by Fifa on April 23, 2021. In April 2021, Fifa relegated Zoo FC to the third-tier league after being found culpable of match-fixing.“Zoo FC is granted a final deadline of 30 days from notification of the present decision in which to comply in full with its obligations under the above-mentioned Fifa decisions." "In particular, the order of relegation of the first team of Zoo FC to the FKF Division One for the next season shall be implemented before the start of the season 2022/2023. “Should the first team of Zoo FC not have been relegated to the FKF Division One upon the initiation of the 2022/2023 season, Zoo FC shall be automatically expelled from all national and international competition."