Alinjugur Secondary School in Fafi subcounty, Garissa, has once again excelled by registering good performance in the 2022 KCSE results. The school produced two of the best in the region. Abdullahi Bishar Abdi and Hassan Ahmed Mohamed both scored mean Grades of A- of 77 and 76 points respectively. While Garissa school, which topped the county had a mean score of  9.174, Alinjugur had 7.5 an improvement from last year where it had a mean score of 7.2. School principal Noor Gani said the results did not come as a surprise since they had put in a lot of hard work. Out of the 105 students who sat the exam, 85 were from the host community while the rest were from the neighbouring refugee camp. “The good performance for the last two years is credited to hard work, discipline, dedication and determination by both candidates and the management,” he said. "I want to thank the entire teaching and non-teaching staff of Alinjugur who worked closely with the candidates to achieve the results we are celebrating today." He said as a school they have made it a tradition to select learners who need a lot of attention and give them remedial lessons. This, he said went a long way in boosting their performance. He said because most of the students come from vulnerable families, they have been supported by either UNHCR, Constituency Development Fund, Elimu Fund and well-wishers. The leading students this year and last year were from the refugee camps. Last year, Mohamud Hire Dahir, a refugee at Hagadera camp, emerged as the best student in Northeastern after scoring an A- in the KCSE exam. “Despite many challenges among them staffing and having to run the school with untrained teachers after, we still soldiered on and next year we will be here again celebrating good results and with an even improved mean core God willing," Gani said. He said out of the 79 candidates who sat the exam, 56 managed to get direct admission to the university. "This is no mean feat," he said. The principal thanked all stakeholders that ensured no student was sent home for fees.