Media personality Sheila Kwamboka has joined the Radio Africa Group. In an announcement made by RAL Group Chief Operating Officer, Martin Khafafa, Sheila has accepted a position at the Westlands-based media house. "Our quest for continuous improvement is tremendous. Sheila Kwamboka better known as Kwambox has joined Radio Africa group. She has quite a reputation for being the home of the best media talent in this country over the past 20 years," he told Mpasho in an interview. "I'm hoping that Kwambox as an addition will not only give listeners a chance to enjoy bigger, better, more engaging radio but also give advertisers a chance you know to get products articulated and well connected to consumers." When asked about which station she would be joining, the media veteran played coy saying it would be left up to the program controllers. "We have several stations. So that's a matter for the program controllers to decide. They will be doing that over the next couple of days." Khafafa reiterated that eager fans should wait for the program controllers to do their work as the company has a large repertoire of stations she could work in. "What I can confirm is that she has joined the group. It's a versatile group with six radio stations with breakfast shows. She could be on any one of them." Radio Africa Group currently owns Classic105, Kiss100, Radio Jambo, Homeboyz, Gukena, and East FM. Sheila has cleared her social media accounts and fans are hoping for a big announcement from their favourite celebrity but are teased about something major coming. "I know I’ve been quiet. I was recharging. This year I am ready to give my very best. I’m almost battery full. And I have a BIG announcement because you know we start the year BIG!!!!" Kwambox as she is known became a household name when she appeared on Big Brother representing Kenya during the third season of the show and also returned for the 5th season. Kwambox had a brief stint in playing professional basketball and took part in a Miss Tourism contest where she emerged a winner in the 2005 event. Her love for Radio has seen her work previously at Homeboyz Radio, and Vybez radio.