Father to father support groups have put men into the parenting equation in Makueni county. The men form fathers’ groups to help women with antenatal care. This is contrary to most set ups where majority of parenting support groups are formed by mothers, hence pushing fathers into the periphery. Most men are isolated from supporting their wives to clinics leading to a lack of parental skills including knowledge on breastfeeding and diet of the child. However, most Makueni men offer guidance on nutrition of their expectant wives and children, thanks to male support groups. Stephen Muema, one of the team leaders from Muthioi village, under Nziu Community Health Unit said the impact of championing health issues in their families was felt after regrouping. He spoke to the Star in Makueni on Thursday. The group came together in 2020 and since then, brag of successes in ensuring successful pregnancies of their wives and health of their children. “Our wives appreciate the roles we play as dads in the households and champions of health matters for our families and the community at large. Our impact is felt in the households,” Muema said. He said their fathers’ support group has ensured they have a safe space in their homes, they can express their parenting challenges and frustrations alongside getting assistance for the same through sharing. Muema said his group comprises of 33 men, among them a Community Health Volunteer, Festus Mutua, who is in charge at Nziu Health Centre. “We share experiences on matters of exclusive breastfeeding, support mothers when pregnant and ensure they attend at least four antenatal clinics. We also support them in the complementary feeding of the baby,” Muema said. Makueni Health promotion officer Florence Mutua, underscores the importance of both mother to mother support groups and male partners support groups in matters nutrition. “When they come together, they offer extra support to the mothers including ensuring the babies are immunised and nutrition is observed, which is important up to five years. For these groups to be formed, a woman must be pregnant or has a child of less than two years,” Mutua said. The county has also partnered with the Canadian government through a partnership with Nutrition International, which has provided financial and technical support to health and nutrition services since 2016. The successes attached to the Makueni health sector has since attracted the attention of four Canadian MPs, who visited the county. These were Scott Aitchison: Parry Sound-Muskoka , Valerie Bradford-Kitchener South – Hespeler, MP Iqwinder Gaheer-Mississauga-Malton  and MP Eric Melillo from Kenora region. The four on Wednesday held lengthy conversations with Makueni Governor Mutula Kilonzo Jnr. “We have witnessed first-hand how the Canadian support is complementing efforts of the Makueni government to address malnutrition, particularly for women and children,” Bradford said. Aitchison said they met development partners, community workers and everyday Kenyans and have seen the role Canada can play in fostering impactful development policy and support. “As the challenges of malnutrition continue to multiply, it is inspiring to see initiatives on the ground that are working to turn the tide,” Results Canada executive director Chris Dendys said. “Local ingenuity and vision, leadership, support from Canada and Nutrition International, matched with the resilience and power of local communities and families are generating results – and hope.” The governor lauded the support by the Canadian government, challenging communities to take nutrition of the young children seriously, to enhance their growth. “Our people have been taught about nutrition especially for children between 0-1,000 days. They will be able to observe the same when the programme ends,” Kilonzo said. Kilonzo said by the time Nutrition International leave Makueni, they shall have made a lifetime mark for residents in matters nutrition. “In Makueni, we have felt an impact of this programme and have real testimonies from mothers and health volunteers across community health units,” he said. The governor further challenged schools to take learners through nutrition topics even as the county continues to offer supplements. “Good nutrition other than boosting the immune system of the children increases their academic performances,” he said. 