The Communications Authority of Kenya has invited comments on the proposal of the framework for emerging technologies regulatory sandbox. Posted on the Authority’s website, the objective of this consultation process is to give Kenyans an opportunity to comment on the framework before adoption. A regulatory sandbox is a set of rules set up by a regulator that allows firms to conduct live tests of innovative products, solutions, and services in a controlled environment with the potential to deepen certain markets. These live tests are done within a limited scale and for a limited period to contain the risks associated with the inventions. The regulatory sandbox provides a dynamic, evidence-based regulatory environment to test emerging technologies such as the Internet of Things, big data analytics, artificial intelligence, and Over-the-Top services. CA is developing this regulatory sandbox with the aim of nurturing and supporting innovation by exploring the application of innovative regulatory solutions. According to them, this effectively shapes the future of the information and communications landscape, by facilitating innovation and creating certainty. This will translate to more opportunities for open collaboration, innovation, economic growth, and better lives for citizens. The framework aims to achieve specific set objectives. These include ensuring that the ICT regulatory environment is conducive to the deployment of numerous new and emerging innovations. Also, making sure that there are sufficient safeguards provided for privacy and consumer protection in the deployment of said innovations. It also seeks to enhance the commercialisation of technology for products and services developed out of research work. The framework also seeks to support an evidence-based approach to the regulation of emerging technologies. It also seeks to increase the chances of startups staying in business, which will result in the creation of more jobs as well as contribution to the GDP. The regulatory sandbox framework is also beneficial in that it aims to improve access to funding for startups, reduce costs and improve market reach for innovative products. It also aims to limit the consequences of failure, make the best solutions available to a customer as well as support incubation for startups so as to accelerate their success by providing them with the resources and services that they need. It will also improve the dialogues between regulators and innovators. In Kenya, the Capital Markets Authority and Insurance Regulatory Authority are examples of regulators that have adopted sandboxing. The focus of the sandbox framework will be to encourage innovations intended for use in the ICT space. These are areas where the proposed innovation shows promise of easing service delivery in a significant way, promoting the growth of the ICT sector as well as promoting competition in the sector. Kenyans can access the draft at https://www.ca.go.ke/consumers/public-consultations/open-consultations/ which is posted at the bottom of the page. Comments or memoranda should be sent to the email address rpqm@ca.go.ke before the close of business on February 3.