Hundreds of families in Karachuonyo constituency are struggling with acute water shortage due to the prolonged drought. Residents of North Karachuonyo, Kibiri and West Karachuonyo wards have to trek for more than 8km to look for water in Lake Victoria. They draw water from the lake at Lwasi beach as it is the nearest source of the commodity. They use donkeys to transport the water. Effie Awuor and Nancy Achieng are among those who wake up early morning to look for water. “I have done this for the last four years. Water shortage is a big problem in Karachuonyo, especially during dry seasons,” Awuor said. Residents said newly married women are told to be aware of the existing water problem so they adapt to the situation. Some who were not able to cope have left. Most household chores like washing clothes and utensils are done in the lake due to shortage of water. Residents also take baths and wash their children in the lake to save water at home. Achieng expressed fears that they are likely to contract cholera should there be an outbreak. Doing household chores in the lake has also increased cases of crocodile and hippo attacks in the area as wild animals look for food. “Life without access to clean water is really hard since we have to wake up early, trek and get clean water. Many people consume the lake water directly without treating it,” Achieng said. Water scarcity in the area started in 2000. According to Ronald Olweny, they began facing the shortage after pipes connecting water in the areas got dilapidated. Previously, the government used to rehabilitate the West Karachuonyo water project and ensured continuous supply of the commodity. But since early 2000, the government has not done so to reverse the situation. The rehabilitation was done under former Karachuonyo MP Okiki Amayo. Amayo ensured many villages were connected to water. He said other leaders who came thereafter have not been fulfilling their promises of restoring the water supply. “Several letters have been written to relevant authorities about water shortage in Karachuonyo in vain. Actually, we’re going to be faced with famine because people don’t farm,” Olweny said. Denis Juma said some residents were accused of vandalising water pipes that used to connect water to villages. “Some NGOs have offered to restore water supply to the village but because of poor piping, we have not received a single drop of water,” Juma said. Koredo assistant chief David Opere said water scarcity in his area of jurisdiction is a security threat to women who walk in the dark when looking for water. “The situation is hard since some donkeys collapse and die due to exhaustion. Some women have also become victims of rape and are sexually molested because they wake up in the wee hours,” Opere said. He urged the government to construct water pans in the villages to reduce the distance they cover in search of water. Well-wishers are also called upon to provide them with drugs that can be used to treat water. Early last year, the national government through Lake Victoria South Water Works Development Agency started upgrading the West Karachuonyo Water Project at a cost of Sh420 million to alleviate water problems in the three wards. The project was aimed at providing water to more than 40,000 residents. LVSWWDA chairman Dan Omino said they were changing the source of water for the project from rivers to Lake Victoria to ensure stable supply. They were also changing the source of energy for supplying the water from electricity to solar. “The rivers are seasonal and prone to reducing water supply,” Omino said. North Karachuonyo MCA Ouma Odongo said they have engaged the county government over the issue and they agreed to dig boreholes in each ward. MCAs have approved a supplementary budget from the water department to allocate Sh3 million for boreholes in their wards. Homa Bay has 40 wards. Odongo said the county government has advertised the tender. The MCA said they are working on how to desilt water pans to help the residents. He urged the county government to use bowsers to supply water to residents at affordable cost. “The shortage of water in Karachuonyo is of great concern. We want the construction of boreholes done as fast as possible,” Odongo said.