A new year is beckoning and as highly expected, a majority of us will yet again set new resolutions even with a chunk of what we set out to achieve at the end of 2022 hardly realised. Whereas reasons behind the failed aspirations may be beyond our control, life coach Caroline Gaithuma says lack of a long-term vision is often the weak link. “A lot of us make resolutions because it’s a trend. Oh, people are going to the gym and it’s trending so I’m going to the gym yet you don’t have a bigger vision for your goals, for your health or your body.” Successful resolutions must be anchored on something, she said, adding that one must be conscious and intentional at achieving whatever goal they set out on a journey to achieve. Gaithuma equated resolutions to a house project where you must first sketch the plan (formulate the idea), put it to architectural scale (mentally visualise it), and dig the foundation (put in the work) before construction (implementation) can begin. “Sometimes some people try to do the interior and they have never even done the foundation,” she said. Gaithuma said lasting, realistic, efficient and sustainable resolutions take a time frame of up to five years achievable in phased durations of a year, months and even days. In perspective, what you set out to achieve in a year should be a portion of a long-term goal in your career, family, relationship or health. “Resolutions are supposed to be based on the bigger vision of your life, not just this year. What’s the vision of your life? How can you break it down into phases and bring it to five years, to one year, to different months and weeks and days?” The vision, she emphasised, must be measurable and evaluated time and again to determine progress as time ticks away. While using the construction analogy, Gaithuma said whereas you may fail to finish construction in a year, doing the foundation within that period is still a win since the plan is to have a home in five years anyway. She further advised on the need to have an open mind that is flexible to change noting that life has its twists and turns and sometimes things don’t pan out exactly as we planned. “There’s no goal for life. Sometimes you find that your goals change. Maybe the gym is not working but walking is working, so letting go of the gym is not failure, it’s actually growth because you are learning yourself in the process.” Gaithuma said being intentional at whatever goal you want to achieve builds the culture of learning and the attitude of being the best even when you miss your target. “What makes our lives get better is not that we are achieving all our resolutions, it’s that as we strive to achieve them, we are becoming more confident, more proactive, more abundant and more courageous.” The life coach discouraged pegging the success of a resolution on financial gain saying money in itself isn’t really a goal but a means to an end. The value of money, she said, isn’t in having a lot of it lying idle somewhere but rather, the gratification the process of gaining the money adds to life. “What’s the end? That’s what you need to focus on. What are you going to do with the money? Even if it’s to buy a car, why do you want a car? she posed. Gaithuma said focusing on the goal rather than the money grants you a wider playing field to achieve abundance. She gave the example of how Covid disrupted jobs and people’s financial streams leading to loss of livelihoods whereas most people who were engaging in creative activities for self-contentment eventually started making money. “The people who got creative actually ended up with more money because they were in pursuit of bigger experiences. Money is actually an outcome of value, what you bring to society. “Most people who are generating wealth and abundance are offering a lot of value. So if you can focus on value – in your career, in the community around you and in the industry - then the money will come,” Gaithuma advised. Edited by Bosco Marita