Police in Kisumu are investigating the pelting of the Kisumu-Nairobi bound train of Kenya Railways with stones in Muhoroni. Evans Getembe who is in charge of Railways security in Kisumu confirmed the stoning of the train while on transit to Kisumu Railways Station from Nairobi. "We have the report that the windows of the train have been pelted with stones three times on different three occasions," he said. He said they have not established the reason behind the stoning of the train when in Muhoroni subcounty. "It is a shocking and unfortunate incident. We are probing the incident to put a stop to it. We have reports that unknown people usually attack the train when it reaches Kisumu, especially at night," Getembe said. He said the attack on the train started during the festive seasons between Koru and Kibigori areas in Muhoroni. "Last night, the train was pelted with stones and luckily there were no casualties. Those pelting the stones reportedly target the train's window panes which risk the lives of passengers," Getembe said. "The broken windows also expose the passengers to cold, and the train management incurs huge losses as they usually repair the broken window panes." He said stern action must be taken against anybody found culpable. Getembe warned that they will shoot on sight those found pelting train with stones. He said the train plays a crucial role in matters of economic value to the nation and Nyanza region which it must be cherished and safeguarded. "Stoning of the train is an act of sabotage to the country's economy. I urge the community around here to be should be enlightened on the economic value of the train to them and the nation," Getembe said. Kenyans, he said should stand firm and be ready to protect their infrastructure for economical gain. He said they have intensified patrols along the railway line on the Koru and Kibigori area and its environs to ensure they arrest and prosecute the culprits interrupting the train operations. The Kisumu Safari Train started operations in January last year more than 10 years after services were suspended due to a dilapidated railway line. The government under former President Uhuru Kenyatta rehabilitated the old line.