It was celebrations galore at Al-Azar High School after it produced the two best students in Northeastern region. Mohamed Amin Abdi and Sumeya Ali both scored A plains of 82 points making history to become the first ones to score such grades in the region. So big was the news that teachers, parents, school management  and the community members neighboring the school joined students who are still on holiday to celebrate the achievements. Speaking to the press at the school moments after the results were announced by the Education CS Ezekiel Mochogu, top boy Mohamed attributed his good grades to sheer hard work, discipline, support from teachers and fellow students as well as praying. A visibly excited Mohamed who wants to take a course in aviation at  university said that while he was expecting to perform well, he didn't expect to top the region. “I am  surely lost for words, my heart is filled with joy.To say that I am happy is understatement. What makes the victory even much sweeter is the fact that I not only topped the region but made history becoming getting an A plain,” he told the Star. He added, I want to thank the Almighty Allah who has given me this chance to prove to prove myself to the world. in the same breath I want to thank the school administration who tirelessly worked with us to make sure that we excel." Mohamed, 18, who was  flanked by his parents urged his former students to remain focused in their studies. He said their good grades was a clear indication that students from the region can match the good [performance of their colleagues from other regions] if given the necessary support. Sumeya Ali, 17 thanked her parents and teachers for supporting her throughout her education journey saying that without them she couldn’t have achieved such grades. “It has been a roller-coaster journey that was filled with challenges that I encountered along the way. But the most beautiful thing is that at end of the day where are here celebrating my good grades,” Sumeya said. She wants to study medicine at university and urged  her fellow students to always remain focused, disciplined and to have goals if they are to succeed in life. She said her good performance should act as a challenge to girls students to work hard in their studies, noting that anything is possible under the sun. The school’s principal Sambur Abdullahi who joined the students in celebrations said that the results were achieved through hard work, determination and cooperation from parents and teachers. “This year we have posted significant improvement in our mean score compared to last years. I can tell you that  to maintain this top performance which we have posting over the years has not been easy. "We have all burnt the midnight oil as the school fraternity, starting from parents to teachers. just to make sure that our students perform well. I am standing in front of you a  very proud manager of this school,” he said. (Edited by V. Graham)