Director of Criminal Investigations Mohamed Amin has denied their new investigations are targeting any individual. He specifically denied they are targeting Azimio la Umoja leaders led by Raila Odinga, Martha Karua, Kalonzo Musyoka and others. He said they want to know the truth on new allegations. "The DCI is not going for Raila or anyone else. The most important thing is to establish the truth behind the allegations," he said. “We just want to know the truth including what the whistleblower said and who he or she is." Asked what they will do with the findings, he said they will cross the bridge when they get there. This follows his letter to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission seeking to establish the validity and authenticity of electoral agency’s Form 34B that have been circulating online. Amin on Wednesday, January 25, wrote to the IEBC to furnish them with certified copies of the Form 34Bs that were used to declare the presidential results. The DCI director said the directorate had received numerous correspondences and various documents alleged to be the ‘official’ results, and complaints relating to information circulating across diverse online which is attributed to the IEBC. “For purposes of lawful processing of the complaints referred above in line with our mandate, we hereby request that you furnish us with the certified copies of forms 34B that were used to tally, verify and declare the results of the presidential elections,” Amin said. According to the DCI, the complainants, whose identity he did not reveal, had said that there are several manipulations in the documents. The DCI chief in a letter addressed to IEBC chief executive Marjan Hussein also warned that anyone found culpable in falsifying the Form 34Bs and publishing the same information for fictitious reason will face the arm of the law. Apart from investigating the validity and the authenticity of the documents, the DCI also said they will also establish whether offences relating to forgery and falsification of documents have been committed under Sections 345-348 of the Penal Code. “Further, the directorate will undertake investigations in relation to provisions of sections 22 and 23 of the Computer Misuse and Cybercrimes Act, 2018,” Amin said. The probe comes barely a week after the opposition, led by Raila Odinga, claimed that they had official presidential results, allegedly from a whistleblower who works for polls agency The opposition claim the then Azimio presidential candidate won the election with about 2.2 million votes, having garnered 8,170,355 against President William Ruto’s 5,915,973.