@alalmaurice Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong’o has demanded quick action to end rising insecurity including killings and maimings. Nyong'o said he was concerned gangs have continued to terrorise residents in Kisumu despite his earlier appealS to the government to crush the gangs. He condemned the attack at National Housing Corporation estate in Obunga, Kisumu Central subcounty, on Tuesday night when a security guard was killed and another admitted in serious but stable condition at a local hospital. They were attacked by an unknown number of criminals. “I am very deeply disturbed by the insecurity in parts of the county. It is the responsibility of the national government to protect the citizens,” Nyong’o said on Tuesday. The governor appealed to Interior CS Kithure Kindiki to swiftly end the spate of crime in Kisumu. Nyong’o said he will hold a meeting with county commissioner Josephine Ouko to tackle insecurity. The rise of insecurity comes barely four days to the Kenya Inter-Counties Sports and Cultural Association games scheduled to start on January 16. Nyong’o praised Ouko for convening a security baraza to address the increased violence in Kisumu East. He said the county government will move swiftly to help curb insecurity. “I have instructed relevant departments to ensure faulty street lights and floodlights in crime-prone areas were restored with immediate effect,” Nyong’o said. He urged residents to help the police arrest the suspects by reporting on suspicious characters. Deputy Governor Mathew Owili said insecurity in Kisumu needed to be dealt with firmly. Owili said the reported attacks and killings are similar. “The security in Kisumu is not good but we are working with the national government through a security agency to ensure the county is safer,” he said. Kisumu central subcounty police commander anthony maina said the thugs were suspected to have jumped over the perimeter wall, broken into vehicles and stolen radio heads. He said investigations are underway and progressis good. Civil society organisations also called for swift action by the government and police to immediately tackle insecurity as more cases are reported daily basis. Headed by by Kisumu Peace and Justice Centre team leader Boniface Akach and Haki Africa executive director Hussein Khalid, they said crime was getting out of hand even as more cases and attacks continued. Akach said police have done little to address the situation. He said residents have been killed, and others still nursing injuries and wounds from attacks in the past month, especially in Kisumu East constituency. Akach said the attackers operating on the motorcycle target the head with a near-fatal blows that leaves victims unconscious. Then they are robbed of money, mobile phones and other valuables. "The gangs armed with several types of edged weapons, and pangas have repeatedly caused havoc among the residents, others have been killed, others left with long-term pains." He said security officers have failed to intensify patrols, especially in Kisumu East and Kisumu Central where most cases have been reported. "Victims of these attacks, and in particular the most disadvantaged groups of the population in the country are plagued by serious and multiple difficulties coupled with the high cost of living,” he said. He there called for swift action in Kisumu East. Akach recommended  formation of a multi-agency task force to speed up the investigation with a view to bringing the perpetrators to justice. Khalid said they will stand together with Kenyans to say no to insecurity witnessed across the country. He said while in Kisumu, they visited survivors of various attacks, those still in hospitals and even morgues to see the situation on the ground for themselves. "for the last month, eight 8 eight people have been killed by marauding criminal gangs without being challenged by the security agencies." He added, “This is why we are calling on the security agencies to take action and responsibility. Kenyans are paying taxes and one of their demands is security." Khalid said they will stand united with civil society organisations in Kisumu to ensure that action is taken. (Edited by V. Graham)