Trans Nzoia county police commander Nelson Shilunji Taliti has put boda boda operators on notice for colluding with armed thugs. The police boss said the emerging culture of ferrying armed thugs that end up robbing and wounding businessmen in the Central Business District in Kitale and its environs was worrying and needed to be curbed. “We will not entertain elements who collude with criminals that have for the past three weeks terrorised the business community in Kitale and its environs,” he said. Taliti said he had noted recent incidences where the riders aided suspects to escape from the police dragnet. "I want to caution all boda boda riders using unregistered motorcycles not to be found anywhere near a supermarket or banking institution,” he said. "We are hereby banning them from entering banks or supermarkets while putting on helmets and face masks." Taliti urged the commercial motorcycle operators to help police through volunteering of information which will lead to the arrest of criminal gangs. This comes in the wake of a robbery incident where thugs who had put on helmets and facemasks robbed an Asian businessman of Sh2.7 million. He said those who will fail to adhere to the warning will be dealt with in accordance with the law. "The boda boda sector plays a very big role in uplifting the economy of this region by employing so many youths," he said. "They must therefore closely partner with the police and the county government to make the sector safe, secure and orderly and devoid of thuggery." The police boss directed county enforcement officers, boda boda management and all the five subcounty police commanders to be on the lookout for those who will be found violating the rules. He said police were in hot pursuit of the criminal gang that escaped using motorcycles. Taliti asked all residents to cooperate with security officers to help restore sanity. Trans Nzoia county boda boda chairman Anthony Ombima asked operators to register with the county Sacco. He said those using unregistered motorcycles will be dealt with for noncompliance. "The boda boda operators must comply with all laws for us to remain relevant. Those who don't comply should blame themselves, " he said. However, Ombima cautioned security officers against using the operation to harass the innocent.