Taita Taveta will no longer ask people applying for county jobs for clearance certificates. Governor Andrew Mwadime said only successful applicants will be required to produce the documents. He said many qualified young people are unable to apply for county jobs for lack of money to acquire the crucial documents. "Our people are yet to recover from Covid-19 and prolonged drought effects, therefore subjecting them to this costly, tedious and time-consuming exercise is very unfair," Mwadime said. He spoke during a public meeting at Mwatate on Wednesday.  The documents include a certificate of good conduct from the Directorate of Criminal Investigation, clearance from the Credit Reference Bureau, Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission clearance, Higher Loans Board clearance and Kenya Revenue Authority tax compliance certificate. The governor promised residents that the County Public Service Board will give equal opportunity to all jobseekers and that there will be no favouritism. Mwadime said the county is banking on hundreds of its qualified young graduates to help develop the region. “The region boasts of hundreds of qualified people who are eager to serve the county. We shall give everybody an equal opportunity while giving out the jobs,” he added. The county boss, who is serving his first term, said he is in the process of structuring his government to realise his development agenda. Mwadime said he is keen on transforming the region’s economy through the creation of jobs and revamping the agriculture, mining and tourism sectors. “My administration is focusing on making the region much better. We are partnering with development partners and investors to reap from the multimillion-shilling mining and tourism sectors and increase agricultural productivity,” he said. County Assembly speaker Wisdom Mwamburi said MCAs have agreed to support Mwadime's development agenda. He blamed "selfish politics" for derailing the county's progress since the inception of devolution. Mwamburi said the legislative arm of the devolved unit will work closely with the executive to streamline services. “We are committed to the spirit of complimenting each other to ensure that there is improvement in service delivery. The region has lagged behind due to divisive politics,” he said. Mwamburi urged area leaders to shun politics and support the county government in its quest to change the region. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya