16 pupils from Nyalenda slums in Kisumu who got 400 marks and above in the last year's Kenya Certificate of Primary Education(KCPE) have earned sponsorship to join form one. The bright and needy students are from Nyalenda B. This was done courtesy of the James Were foundation in partnership with the Gilani foundation. The pupils could not hide their joy on Thursday while receiving their cheques to join schools next week. One of the Pupils from Joel Omino primary school Manase Opiyo said his hopes of joining form one had already been shattered bearing the condition of her mum. Opiyo said through the foundation, his dreams have remained alive. "I just don't know what to say but my hopes are alive and next week I am joining Kabianga high school," he said. Opiyo added that he will not let down his sponsors because not everyone gets such opportunities from where he is coming from. Mitchell Atieno who is set to join Asumbi Girls also noted that they will not let down their sponsors. "I am happy with this kind gesture and pray that more students out there get such opportunities ." Byron Ocheing one of the beneficiaries of the scholarship just concluded high school at Maranda High school and got a grade of A plane with 82 points. He noted that he joined the foundation in 2019. His fees were paid until he finished his education. "This support is a guarantee that you will learn the entire four years without any hiccup, just make sure you that you work hard while in those schools," he told the beneficiaries. Nyalenda B MCA who is also the Director of the foundation said the students deserved support for their hard work. He said the foundation has existed since 2013 and has so far sponsored more than 30 students to various schools across the country He said they motivate them so that they can work hard and feel that there are people somewhere valuing their education. "Today we have managed to sponsor 16 bright and needy students to various high schools across the country". He noted that most parents within the slums are still living below a dollar and can't manage or afford to pay school fees for their children hence the efforts to support them. "This is the reason why we came in place to bridge the gap for them. I also call upon more partners to join in so that we can change the lives of these children and also increase the numbers of beneficiaries," Were noted.