Marsabit Governor Mohamud Ali on Saturday called on county leaders to work closely with his administration for the devolved unit to work. He asked them to put their personal and political differences aside for the sake of the development of the region. Mohamud stressed the need for the leaders to close ranks and work together in unity for the progress of the county and the future of its people. "The county cannot achieve meaningful development without elected leaders working together. The leaders should work together for the common good of our people," he said He pointed out that he is ready and willing to work with all elected leaders in the county for the interest of the people, assuring that his administration will continue investing in key development projects that are intended to raise the living standards of the people. The county boss said it was wrong for the political leaders to trade accusations in public at the expense of development and service delivery. The governor noted that the election is over and leaders should embrace one another. " It's important for us as leaders not to fight because of past political differences but work together to solve the challenges facing our people." said the county boss. He was speaking during a thanksgiving ceremony of an education attachee to Brussels in Mado Adi. He said the infighting between the leaders would hamper the implementation of development and affect lobbying for additional resources. He said the local population had pegged their hope on their leaders and that services needed to be improved. Our people have had high expectations from all of us and they expect us to provide effective service delivery." he said "The choice is ours and the move is now. We might not have another opportunity to serve them and collectively we have a huge responsibility," he added He argued that the objectives of devolution cannot be achieved in an atmosphere where there is disharmony among the leaders and for them to deliver, they must forge a strong bond of unity regardless of their political affiliation for the sake of the people. "If confrontation takes centre stage, none of the leaders will be able to deliver on their mandate." Said Governor Mohamud. Governor Mohamud insisted that he will continue distributing the relief food and called for patience as his administration works hard to unlock challenges in different sectors. The county boss led residents and leaders to congratulate professor Fugicha Wako Diba and thanked the president for his appointment as education attachee to Brussels, the position which was last given to the region in 1990. While welcoming the appointment of professor and his last year's general election competitor Commissioner Kello Harsama for the position of PS crop production, he said president Ruto has indicated that he is ready to work with all communities across the country and reaffirmed his commitment to embracing minority tribes in Kenya. The Governor argued that professor Fugicha is a professional who has displayed excellent and outstanding Performance in various institutions he has served. Governor said the appointment of commissioner Kelo Harsama, Mohamed Liban from Isiolo and Idris Dokata was historic as it was the first time the region previously neglected was included in the government appointments for such a big position. He expressed his gratitude and appreciation to the president and asked for more appointments in the next phase of the appointment. Laisamis MP Joseph Lekuton has urged leaders to remain united as they discharge their constitutional duties in order to deliver on their mandates. He said the county was facing numerous challenges and the current leaders have to take tough decisions for the good of the people. Lekuton challenged parents to invest in their children's education to secure them a better future, saying education will make them grow into responsible citizens. He said children were the future leaders and needed to be given the necessary care and support for them to realize their full potential. The MP  described good education as a holistic one that empowers children spiritually, mentally, psychologically and physically to be focused in life and excel in any endeavour. He urged education attachee to Brussels professor Fugicha to secure as many scholarship opportunities as possible for needy and bright students from the region. Community elder Galm Dabaso thanked the president for the appointments of commissioner Kelo Harsama and professor Fugicha, saying the president always cares for the marginalized community in the country. Dabaso described the professor as an educationist who from his childhood topped his class and challenged him to use the position given to secure a scholarship for students from the region long been marginalized. He urged parents and guardians to educate and support their children in school in order for them to excel. He added that failure to follow up on children's academic performance makes children relax resulting in poor performance. " The time parents and guardians spend with their children is important in nurturing them. If parents do not play the parenting role then they do not deserve to be called parents," he said The council of elders said parents should look at their children in the best way possible if they want the youngsters to be important people in future.