The World Health Organization, announced plans to establish a new team to accelerate development of a TB vaccine. The plan to come up with the TB Vaccine Accelerator Council comes as a response to the impact of Covid-19 on TB services. The WHO says BCG, which is currently the only licensed TB vaccine provides moderate efficacy in preventing severe forms of TB in infants and young children. However, it does not adequately protect adolescents and adults, who account for close to 90 per cent of TB transmissions globally. WHO director general Dr Tedros Ghebreyesus said the council will facilitate the licensing and use of effective new TB vaccines by identifying and overcoming barriers to TB vaccine development. “One of the most important lessons from the response to the Covid-19 pandemic is that innovative health interventions can be delivered fast if they are prioritised politically and financed adequately,” he said. “The challenges presented by TB and Covid-19 are different, but the ingredients that accelerate science, research and innovation are the same.” Tuberculosis is a potentially serious infectious disease that mainly affects the lungs. The bacteria that cause tuberculosis spreads from person to person through tiny droplets released into the air via coughs and sneezes. The director acknowledged the need for urgent, up-front public investment together with support from philanthropy, coupled with engagement of the private sector and communities. According to WHO, more than 10.6 million people fell sick with TB, and 1.6 million died in 2021 alone. “Drug-resistance continues to be a major problem with close to half a million people developing drug-resistant TB every year,” WHO says. About one quarter of the world’s population is infected with a latent form of TB that causes no symptoms and is not contagious. Without treatment, five to 10 per cent of those infected will develop active TB, which causes severe illness and can be transmitted from person to person through the air. Drug-resistant TB occurs when bacteria become resistant to the drugs used to treat the disease. This means that the drug can no longer kill the TB bacteria.