Discussions on climate change have become more popular from those in the higher command chain to the mwananchi. We need to unite as humans to fight the climate crisis and save Earth before the effects become too difficult to mitigate. However, it is critical to mind ourselves first, as we cannot make the land better if we are not. Climate anxiety is a condition related to worries about the effects of climate change and the future of the world. It is not a mental illness. It is common in young people who are involved in the fight. "I feel guilty like it is my responsibility. That I should have stopped it before it happened. The prolonged drought experienced In the Northern frontier counties keeps me awake at night," Perpetua Etyang, an environmentalist said. In a poll done by Unicef, between July and August 2022, it established that globally, two in five young people said climate impacts have made them reconsider their desire to have children. "Concern was highest in African regions, where nearly half of respondents said they were now on the fence," Unicef said. The respondents were more than 243,512 young people from 163 countries. Here are some tips on how one can deal with stress and avoid burnout in climate action and mental illnesses as an extension. Take time out from climate-related news - Considering the affected are mostly environmentalists, this can prove difficult. It is, however, worth trying. Spend time thinking about the positives - To help out, one can get in touch with social sites showing the positive side of climate news. How communities are rearing and growing resistant animals and crops respectively, and the places where the glaciers are still intact. Remember you're not alone in this fight - It is easier to forget that you are not alone. Especially when the anxiety is at its highest pitch. But remember you have the help of millions of people around the world who share your concern. The various United Nations agencies and other humanitarian organisations are also committed to mitigating the climate change effects. Talk to someone about how you are feeling - Talk about it. Get someone you trust and tell them how you are feeling. Climate anxiety is real and can lead to diverse mental effects. Sharing is half of solving.