President William Ruto has poured cold water on Azimio's planned protest rallies aimed at undermining the legitimacy of his presidency. He said what they are doing is part of the process of their long game to remain relevant as they wait to try their luck at the top office. "Kazi ile imebaki ni ya maendeleo, ile kazi ingine tulimaliza, hakuna kazi ya kuombana kura. Hawa majamaa wengine tu wanajaribujaribu tu na unajua nae kujaribu ni hivyo tu hakuna problem," Ruto said. (We are done with campaigns, the only work now is to do development. These other guys are just trying their lack and there's no problem with that) The President spoke on Friday during the launch of the Affordable Housing Project in Shauri Moyo, Nairobi. Ruto was responding to Azimio leader Raila Odinga's pronouncement that he neither recognises his government nor him as a legitimate president. He said he has evidence released by the IEBC whistleblower which showed he won the elections with 8.1 million votes against Ruto's 5.9 million votes. Raila said he will hold another rally at the Jacaranda grounds this Sunday to build up on what was agreed on at the Kamukunji grounds on Monday. But Ruto downplayed the effects of the rallies on his work saying Raila and his team will eventually get tired. "Watakuja kutilia, so wawache nipange hii kazi. Kazi hii walishindwa," Ruto said. (They will calm down with time, so let them allow me to plan my work, work they failed to do) Ruto blamed the opposition for the prevailing high cost of living that saw the price of unga skyrocket to over Sh200 per 2kg packet. "We are where we are today where unga costs Sh230 because we had no plan. Right now, I'm making plans and arranging farmers to ensure we have sufficient food. Food does not come from the shelves, it comes from the farm," he said. He said already, five million farmers have been registered to receive subsidised fertiliser and seed in readiness for the planting season to ensure Kenya produces enough food. "Wawache kimbelembele nipange maneno, hii hawawezi na hawajui," he said.