The Presidential Communication Service which replaced the defunct Presidential Strategic Communication Unit has been expanded to include new departments. In an Executive Order issued on Monday by President William Ruto, five new departments have been created under the PCS, each with distinct functions. Ruto made new appointments to the departments in a move seen as aimed at ensuring communication between his office and the State House is strategic. Under the new structure, the former Senior Director of Public Communication at State House, Munyori Buku, has been appointed the Public Communications Secretary. David Nzioka, who served as the Directorate of Communication, Events, and Branding in PSCU was appointed Digital and Innovations Secretary. Nzioka was fired in 2020 following the reorganisation of the presidential press unit by then-President Uhuru Kenyatta. Eric Ngeno, who previously worked as Uhuru's speech writer, was appointed the Messaging Secretary and Speechwriter while James Kinyua will head the Branding and Events department as the secretary. Meanwhile, Wanjohi Githae, a veteran journalist, has been appointed the Public Communications Director. This is the second time Ruto has reorganised his communication unit since taking over the reigns of power at State House. A month after taking the oath of office, Ruto issued his first Executive Order on October 13, 2022, and rebranded the then Presidential Strategic Communication Unit (PSCU) to Presidential Communication Service (PCS). In the changes, the deputy in the office of the PCS doubled up as the State House Spokesperson. Upon entry into office in 2013, Uhuru rebranded the Presidential Press Service (PPS) to the PSCU with Manoah Esipisu, currently Kenya's High Commissioner to the UK, as its first officeholder. Esipisu served as Secretary of Communications and State House Spokesperson until 2018 when he was replaced by former journalist Kanze Dena following his reassignment as a diplomat. The PPS had been functional under the Jomo Kenyatta, Daniel Moi, and Mwai Kibaki regimes.