A weather warning for ice has been issued across Northern Ireland on Sunday night. It will mark the start of a cold snap that is due to move in and last for much of the next week. Some road surfaces will become icy after wintry showers on Sunday night, causing some difficult driving conditions. Rain will fall mainly to lower levels but up to 5cm (2in) of snow is expected in some high ground areas above 100m (328ft) to 200m (656ft). However most places are expected to avoid the showers altogether. The ice warning comes into force at 18:00 GMT on Sunday until 10:00 on Monday. Hazardous driving conditions are also forecast across the Republic of Ireland on Sunday night, with the national weather service Met Éireann warning of patches of freezing fog. Sub-zero temperatures by night are expected to last for much of the next week as a result of the cold snap in Northern Ireland. Thermometers are forecast to fall as low at -5C in some countryside areas into the early hours of Monday. Temperatures are then expected to rise no higher than about 3C for most places during the day. Similar temperatures are expected both by day and by night until at least Thursday. Some fine winter sunshine is expected on the cold and crisp days along with some wintry showers, brought on on a chilly northerly wind. As the colder air digs in some wintry showers could come down to all levels on Sunday, although most places are expected to miss those showers. A widespread frost is then expected to follow along with a risk of some icy patches. There is a risk of some snow and sleet showers from the north coast through the week, mainly over higher ground. Frosty and possible icy patches will also remain by night. In the Republic of Ireland a weather advisory has been issued ahead of the cold air pushing south across the island. Met Éireann has forecast severe frosts, icy stretches, wintry showers and some freezing patches of fog. They are also expected to issue warnings in the coming days. A cold weather alert has also been issued by authorities in England. People are being urged to use their heating, despite rising energy prices, and to look out for people who are especially vulnerable. The level also alerts social and healthcare services to take action to protect high-risk groups.