Liverpool coach Jurgen Klopp says he is going nowhere and insists he is not being too loyal to players who are either out of form or past their best. Speaking ahead of Tuesday’s FA Cup replay against Wolverhampton, which came on the back of a 3-0 defeat to Brighton, which he called the “worst” he had seen, Klopp was asked about his side, which currently sits ninth in the Premier League table, 19 points behind league leaders Arsenal. “Either I go, the manager position changes, or a lot of other things change,” said Klopp. “As far as I know, from what I hear, I will not go. So that means maybe there’s a point where we have to change other stuff. And we will see that. But it’s something for the future, like in the summer, but not now,” he continued. “I am loyal, I think everyone should be loyal, but I am not too loyal,” explained Klopp, saying it was a “complex” problem. “You have a good player who did a lot of good stuff in the past and then maybe, in your mind, you think: ‘That’s it for him now.’ If you can then go out and bring in another player to replace him,” Klopp said, adding this was not the case at Liverpool at the moment. “We cannot even think about it right now. We have to play better football now. We cannot play and say: ‘These are problems but next season we won’t have them anymore.’ That is really long away,” he explained. “We stick together and we fight. If we lose, we lose, but in a way that we can accept,” he insisted. Meanwhile, Everton are reviewing all their security arrangements after the club's board of directors missed Saturday's game against Southampton because of threats to their safety. The board of directors did not attend after "threatening correspondence". In consultation with police, Everton classed the fixture as "high risk" - a status also given to their next home game on 4 February against Arsenal. Everton said there would be "enhanced security procedures" put in place. The club said the decision came following "incidents" at the Southampton fixture and previous games, and that it was based on "intelligence gathered and information received directly by the club". Everton added: "The health, safety and security of our supporters, staff and players is and will always remain our top priority." The club previously said there have been "increasing incidents of anti-social behaviour, including targeted physical aggression" at recent home games. Club sources said chief executive Denise Barrett-Baxendale was manhandled by a male fan after a 4-1 home defeat by Brighton earlier in January. Earlier on Monday, Merseyside Police said no threats or incidents had been reported to officers prior to Saturday's game. It added officers were aware of videos on social media of fans approaching players' cars as they made their way from Goodison Park after the 2-1 defeat. The Toffees are 19th in the Premier League, have not won in nine matches in all competitions and have been knocked out of both domestic cups. This month the Everton Fans' Forum (EFF) wrote an open letter to owner Farhad Moshiri asking for "sweeping changes at chair, board and executive levels". On Saturday the EFF said it "completely condemns" any threats to Everton staff or directors.