Polycarp Wanga has gone to court to challenge outcome of the December 8, South Gem by-election. Brian Anyango, an independent candidate, was declared as the MCA-elect by the IEBC returning officer. Anyango garnered 3,469 votes defeating Wanga of ODM, who managed 3,353 votes. The race had attracted nine candidates. On Wednesday, Wanga ,through his lawyer Jackson Awele filed an election petition challenging Anyango's win at the Siaya resident magistrate court. In his petition, Wanga wants the court to nullify the result on the account that it was marred with violence, harassment and intimidation of voters. The petitioner further said there was wide spread irregularities and illegalities that affected the integrity and validity of the December 8, by-election. Wanga singled out in his petition, the violence that erupted at Kambare Primary and Kambare Secondary School polling stations on voting day. He claimed that the incident scared away voters who could not turn out to cast their ballot due to fear of being attacked. The petitioner further alleges that many of his supporters, agents and poll coordinators were injured after a convoy they were travelling in was allegedly attacked by gangs he claims were hired by Anyango. According the petition, ODM agents were also blocked from accessing their designated polling stations at Oseno and Malele Primary schools for several hours. "When violence broke at Kambare, ballot boxes were evacuated, unsealed and later sealed in the absence of my agents. This denied them the opportunity to verify the validity of votes cast and counted before results were declared by the presiding officers at the two stations," he said. Wanga claims that there was falsification of the results and ballot stuffing by his main rival. He said some 102 voters could not be accounted for at Kambare Primary and Secondary school polling stations, which had 471 registered voters. "Some 238 votes were cast while only 136 voters were identified through the Kiems kits. There was no manual identification of voters at the stations because the kits didn't fail," Wanga said. "These are glaring irregularities that needs to be checked considering that victory was declared on a margin of 116 votes." Wanga was given the ticket after IEBC postponed the election last August following the death of his elder brother Nick Wanga of ODM. He said in the petition that the violence was pre-planned and executed in a pattern that targeted areas with high numbers of registered voters. "We want the courts to order for production, preservation and scrutiny of election materials used at Kambare Primary and Kambare Secondary School, Malale and Oseno polling stations," the petition reads. "These include polling stations dairies, SD cards, Kiems kits, ballot boxes, ballot paper counterfoil and results declaration forms." The petitioner further wants the court to direct IEBC and the retuning officer ( listed as second and third respondents in the petition) to supply all parties and court with certified copies of all results declaration forms used to declare Anyango as the MCA-elect. Wanga also wants the court to declare that the election was not conducted in conformity to the Constitution and that Anyango was not validly elected and therefore the result be nullified. He further wants a declaration that the respondent may have engaged in criminal acts and the certificate issued to him as the MCA-elect be nullified. The election of Anyango in the ODM perceived stronghold brought bitter exchanges between the party stalwarts and Gem MP Elisha Odhiambo, who rode to Parliament on an ODM ticket in the August 9 polls. The MP who has emerged as a fierce critic of Governor James Orengo who led ODM campaigns in South Gem, was accused of abandoning the party in favour of the independent candidate. A day after the poll the MP was seen in a video confirming his support for Anyango and went on to rebuke Orengo, whom he claimed used millions to campaign for the ODM candidate but failed. His sentiments attracted condemnation from the party leadership in the county and a section of Gem residents who called on the party to take action against the lawmaker.