Bidco United head coach Anthony Akhulia has attributed their 4-1 win against AFC Leopards to key changes effected in the squad following a torrid start to their Kenyan Premier League campaign. The Thika-based side were winless in five matches heading into this encounter but overcame their underdogs' tag to claim an important win at Nyayo Stadium on Sunday. “We've been using the same players with no success. We, therefore, made six changes today, from the goalkeeper to the striking  force and the results were positive," Akhulia said. “It was a strong team effort. We've been playing but not winning, so this is a significant victory for us. I believe we can build on it and win our next game,” he added. Patrick Aussems, Akhulia's opposite at Leopards, slammed his players for a mediocre second-half performance that cost them the match. “We played well in the first 45 minutes, but my team struggled in the second half. My defensive line was awful because we made the same error three times,” Aussems lamented. “I'm completely surprised because this is the first time we've given up four goals in recent years.” Bidco's Francis Oduor opened the scoring in the 24th minute from a corner kick, just minutes after Leopards goalkeeper Levis Opiyo was forced to stretch to stop Eric Gichimu's rasping effort. A quick turnaround brought cheer to Leopards' glum fans. Nigerian forward Ojo Olaniyi headed in Cliff Nyakeya's inviting cross on the half-hour mark. Henry Juma, off the bench, helped regain their lead with a 63rd-minute goal. 10 minutes later, Eric Gichimu extended the visitors lead before Juma on the 81s mark. Kenya Police came from behind to defeat Kariobangi Sharks 2-1 at Kasarani Annex, their second win in two matches. Bandari returned to winning ways with a 2-1 victory over Tusker at Mbaraki Stadium. Sofapaka piled more misery on Mathare United with a 4-0 thrashing at Ruaraka Complex, while Nzoia Sugar were held to a one-all draw by Kakamega Homeboyz at Sudi Stadium . Gor Mahia recovered from a 1-0 loss to KCB on Wednesday to beat Posta Rangers 2-0 at Thika Stadium. Ulinzi Stars defeated Wazito 1-0 at Ulinzi Complex, while Nairobi City Stars' losing streak continued with a 2-0 loss to Vihiga Bullets at Bukhungu. At Moi Stadium in Kasarani, KCB defeated Talanta 2-1.