Nairobi Governor Johnson Sakaja has said there is no bad blood between him and Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua. Speaking on Sunday after a church service at Pefa South B, Sakaja said there were no issues between them as is being portrayed. “People are trying to create a tiff between the DP and me. They are taking advantage, especially people from other political parties are trying to create something that is not there,” he said. He was accompanied by his deputy Njoroge Muchiri among other Nairobi county officials. Sakaja said he has private conversations with President William Ruto and he does the same with Gachagua. It has been perceived that Governor Sakaja and DP Gachagua were not seeing eye to eye over their different opinion on decongesting Nairobi’s Central Business District. In December 2022, Sakaja announced that long-distance matatu will be relocated from the CBD to Green Park terminus. However, according to the DP, Sakaja ought to have consulted him before making decisions, which affect the businesses of the people of Mt Kenya - who gave him votes. On December 20, 2022, Gachagua warned Sakaja against implementing the plan to relocate matatus. He termed the move as ill-intentioned which he claimed was aimed at persecuting the business community from Mt Kenya, adding that it will disrupt businesses. "I shall sit down with Sakaja because we are the ones who elected him. We must first discuss anything which can disrupt business in Nairobi. We do not need a lot of speed, go slow," the DP said. As a result, Politicians from Mt Kenya and the Western region have had different sentiments, either supporting Gachagua or Sakaja. Going further, Governor Sakaja said that he respects all leaders across the political divide. “I have respect for all leaders regardless of their political divide including the DP. You will never hear me speak ill of any leader,” he said. Sakaja, however, said the county government of Nairobi will continue playing its part and working with the national government where need be. Sakaja added that he will continue rolling out his planned changes in Nairobi and there is no turning back.