A section of residents from the Suba South constituency has asked Homa Bay government to include locals in the operation and management of the Kigoto maize milling plant. They argued that incorporating residents to provide labour and human resource would ensure they are not locked out from the benefits of the factory. The county government opened the gates of the Kigoto maize plant for sifted flour on November 4, 2022. ODM leader Raila Odinga led the opening. The plant was started by former Governor Cyprian Awiti in 2014 before his successor Gladys Wanga's administration completed it. The factory has been operating since it was opened. On Wednesday, residents asked Governor Wanga to make changes and include the community by employing them to work in the factory. They claimed a majority of people working at the factory are non-locals who do not have their interests at heart. Speaking during a meeting at Kigoto market, the community members led by Charles Owaga, Nelson Magure and Helen Anyango said they need to benefit from the factory. Owaga who lives 400 meters from the factory claimed that an awareness campaign was not done before the hiring of workers was done. “The community has a lot of problems with the management and operations of the factory including how recruitment of workers was done. We would want Governor Wanga to intervene,” Owaga said. According to Owaga, they are able to point out employees of the factory who come from a particular village which is outside the Suba region. They claimed that the workers are arrogant and frustrating juniors who are not their close relatives. “The casual labourers who are not their relatives complain of frustration because they are not paid overtime. We think they don’t have the interest of the factory at heart,” he said. When the factory was established, officials from the departments of agriculture and trade hoped to source raw materials from local farmers directly without engaging middlemen. However, since it started operation, the residents who are farmers claimed they have been sidelined. Owaga said some officials from the factory are sourcing maize from outside Homa Bay. They claimed the county government did not insure their farm crops as agreed. “Farmers shouldn’t just grow crops without being insured. Let’s stop the traditional way of doing things but provide insurance cover for the crops,” he said. Anyango argued that the failure of the Homa Bay government to conduct public participation has contributed to some problems the community is facing with the factory. They want the county government to streamline operations at the firm to enable the community to benefit. “It’s high time the county government provided a lasting solution to the people around the factory. Many women are overworked and are released from work at 9 pm,” Anyango said. Homa Bay Trade executive Polycarp Okombo said they have heard the complaints and are now addressing them. Okombo asked the residents to note down the grievances and channel them to his office for redress. “We are working towards solving the challenges. Part of our plans includes constituting a board that will run the factory,” he said. The county government is developing an act that will allow it to appoint a board. County Public Service Board is in the process of recruiting the board which Okombo said will have the responsibility of recruiting workers. He assured residents that all operational issues affecting the factory will be addressed once the board is in place. “We have partnered with the agriculture department to support farmers to procure more maize," Okombo said.