Agitated AFC Leopards fans can now rest easy after the side clawed Kenya Police 1-0 at Nyayo Stadium on Wednesday to keep their Kenyan Premier League title hopes alive. Nigerian forward Ojo Olaniyi's 71st-minute strike was enough to fire the 13-time Kenyan Premier League champions past the resilient law enforcers. A visibly elated head coach Patrick Aussems extolled his charges for appeasing their impatient fans with the hard-earned victory. The Belgian gaffer expressed relief that they had finally managed to silence their critics, who had recently heightened the chorus calling for the technical bench to be fired. "As I previously stated, football is a game in which people should be prepared for any outcome, especially in a competitive league like this one. Sometimes you win, sometimes you lose, and sometimes you draw," Aussems explained. "I'd like to ask our fans to be patient while we get our house in order. We are all aware that we have had difficulties with the squad due to several injuries and the fact that FKF has barred some of our players from playing in the league. He attributed their troubles to a string of setbacks the club had experienced in recent months. “Then there is also the Fifa ban that makes it difficult for us to sign new players. I'm glad the players we promoted from the youth team are maturing fast and we should soon start to expect brilliant results." Aussems, however, reckons that they should have registered a win of a bigger margin if they had made good use of the chances they created. Aussems opposite number at Police, Francis Barasa said the loss was disheartening considering how his charges fought gallantly in the encounter. “Judging by how we played, we deserved to have won the match but it's unfortunate we had a bad day out. It's a good lesson and we shall be rectifying the howlers we witnessed in the match to register a better performance in our subsequent matches." Slum Boys, Mathare United rallied from a goal down to register their first win of the season with an emphatic 3-1 thrashing of Bidco United at Utalii grounds. Peter Nzuki netted Bidco's only goal in the 14th minute. Donald Ange restored parity in the 37th minute before Daniel Otieno put Mathare ahead with a brilliant 60th-minute effort. Curtis Wekesa then took the results beyond reach with only three minutes left to the final whistle. Musa Musharaff's stoppage-time effort was all Kariobangi Sharks needed to fend off a tough challenge and edge coastal side, Bandari 1-0 at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Ambrose Sifuna netted late in the game to cancel out Ali Bhai's 76th- minute goal and secure a draw for Sofapaka against Kakamega Homeboyz at Bukhungu Stadium. Nairobi City Stars pipped Wazito 1-0 at Ruaraka grounds to bag their second win of the season. Champions Tusker were held to a barren draw by hard-battling Ulinzi Stars at Kasarani Annex in Nairobi while Posta Rangers played out a one-all draw against KCB at Kasarani Annex.