Homa Bay health workers need adequate tools to enable them better services to residents, former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero has said. This comes after he went to Homa Bay County Teaching and Referral Hospital for a check-up. Kidero said he had to wait for 20 minutes for his blood sample to be collected because the laboratory had run out of gloves. "Medical workers at the hospital have requisite knowledge on how to handle different health situations but they only need adequate tools of work to improve their services," he said. He said health services can be boosted in hospitals should the county government ensure tools are available at all times. “I came here to seek medication and not to criticise. My observation is that tools of work should be provided to improve services,” Kidero said. Speaking after being attended to at the hospital on Monday, Kidero said he visited the facility after he felt unwell. His blood pressure was also checked. After being received by a clinical officer at a laboratory section, Kidero was told to wait as health workers were sourcing for gloves. “Results are not yet out. I will be contacted to collect them,” he said. Kidero said he could not pay money for services immediately because the system does not accept debit cards or credit cards. Homa Bay government recently introduced a digital revenue collection system hoping to deal away with the loss of funds. At the hospital, patients are required to pay for services using their M-Pesa.  Kidero said he had no money in his phone when he walked to the hospital. He said the system cannot work well for patients who do not know how to use the digital revenue collection system. “I had to ask for assistance from someone who had money in his phone. Old people who do not have phones are likely to be blocked from accessing health services,” he said. However responding to Kidero's comments, Homa Bay Health chief officer Kevin Osuri dismissed the allegations saying Kidero was well attended to at the hospital. "It's good he attended the hospital for medication," Osuri said. On the system issue, Osuri said they are in the process of digitising the system to reduce loss of revenue and efficiency. He said they are dealing with a mode of payment which is easier for the majority. M-Pesa is good for many residents since they have mobile phones. "Most of our clients don't hold debit cards or credit cards hence we're yet to introduce them in the system," he added Governor Gladys Wanga had said she intends to better health service provision in Homa Bay as it is given priority. In her 100 days in office, Wanga said she has built an outpatient unit at the referral hospital. “We have also supplied drugs to all hospitals across the county. We are working on addressing other matters such as cancer care and procuring a CT scan machine,” she said.