There has been a rise in the office girlfriend, boyfriend relationship that Kenyans on Twitter term 'Inama'. Although university students refer to Inama as 'hunger', employed Kenyans have redefined it. For those who don't understand Inama, it is simply having a sexual and or casual relationship with a colleague with whom you only talk during office hours. Mercy Akello, a manager at a local bank said Inama is the order of the day in Kenyan offices, and one is considered 'Kienyeji' if they are not in an office relation. "Let me tell you, the young, old employees in this bank are all in an 'Inama', and some don't hide it, it is known," she said. "During breaks, you could hear people warning newcomer - huyo usimshike ni wa nani (don't approach that one, they belong to someone)" She says policy at the organisation allows colleagues to have a relationship as long as their work is not affected. Akello however did not disclose whether she is in one or not. Peter Maina, a married Kiambu county teacher said, Inama is the best thing that happened to him. "There are certain things I can't tell my wife as she will bring in our issues in the middle of a conversation," he said. Maina disclosed that whenever he and his Inama partner are on breaks, they book logging for 2 hours, engage in marital affairs and talk about their problems, achievement and go back to work. "After the break, I always feel rejuvenated, as I have poured out my heart, talked things out and came up with a solution from someone who understands me," he said. A classic 105 morning show listener had called in the show and confessed how she has an Inama who caters to her breakfast, lunch and evening tea, without asking. "Let me tell you Maina, my Inama, serves me in the office, his wife prepares meals for him, packs them, but I am the one who eats them in the office," she said She also said she doesn't get conjugal rights from her husband as she get it from her Inama anytime she wants as most of her free time is meant for just that - Inama. Victor Otieno on the other hand said Inama has brought him more problems, financially. "My office girlfriend caught feelings, and now she wants me to be in her house every day and stop the logging visits as she wanted more hours with me," he said. Otieno added that he now pays rent for two houses as him and his wife are not on good terms. "Unajua mama watoto ni kichwa ngumu, so mimi staki stress, nikifika home na alete drama, I go to my office girlfriend and spend my night there, shida ni lazima niende shopping mara mbili, kila kitu ni double double," he said. (You know my wife is tough-headed, and I don't want stress. When I get home, and she starts her drama, I leave and go to my office girlfriend. The problem is now I pay double bills).