Self care goes beyond having a facial routine and using good oils and perfume. Experts say it’s a good idea to always urinate after sex. It’s especially beneficial for women’s health. Gynecologist Wasike Wamalwa listed some of the benefits of urinating after sex during an interview on Wednesday. Urinary tract infections A urinary tract infection is an infection that occurs in any area of the urinary system, such as the bladder, urethra, or kidneys. An infection of the urinary tract occurs when bacteria gets into your urinary tract through your urethra and starts multiplying in your bladder. The bacteria can grow and cause an infection. Doctor Wamalwa said urine is the power washer for the urethra. "If you urinate after sex, germs in your urethra get the flush before they can cause a urinary tract infection," he said. “When you urinate, anything that was trying to get to the bladder gets pushed out with the urine." The medic said it’s always a good idea to urinate after sex, particularly for women. He said women’s urethras are shorter than men’s hence bacteria can enter easily and cause a urinary tract infection. Benefit of reduced UTI risk Wamalwa said if one is prone to UTIs, they may benefit the most from urinating after sex. "The path from your urethra to your bladder is short, so the bacteria doesn’t have to travel far to cause a UTI," he said. How soon after sex should you urinate? The doctor advised it is good to urinate within 30 minutes after sex. "If you wait much longer, bacteria has a better chance of making it into your bladder," he said. Can one get pregnant after urinating minutes after sex Wamalwa said urinating after sex will not prevent a pregnancy. "If you’re trying to prevent pregnancy, urinating can’t help you. Use a proven form of birth control like latex condoms or birth control pills," he said. The medic said urination will also not prevent sexually transmitted infections. Pregnancy requires sperm to travel up the vagina to the fallopian tubes and a woman's vagina is separate from the urethra, so urinating will not help. Should men also urinate after sex? Wamalwa, however, said there is not as much benefit for men to urinate after sex. "A male urethra is longer than a female’s, so they don’t usually get post-sex UTIs," he said.