Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro has bashed Opposition leader Raila Odinga on his 'grand rally' set to take place on Monday. Speaking in Keruguya on Sunday, Nyoro termed the 'grand announcement' expected to be made by Raila tomorrow as empy threats. "I feel sorry for those who are threatening you ( President)…You are a Mandela in Kenya and also in Central region and hutishiki," he said. Nyoro who is a close ally to President William Ruto noted that despite having respect for ODM party leader Raila, he criticized his decision of holding protests and rallier whenever things don't go his way. Raila has been out of the country for slightly over a week having left the country on January 13, 2023  for South Africa. Nyoro challenged Raila to research more on the late South Africa President Nelson Mandela and how he lead the country. "Namheshimu yule alienda SA and he is my leader.But he should have really found out how Mandela lead South Africa. Mandela unlike him was not a man of threats and maandamano," he said . Going further, the Kiharu MP termed Azimio's 'whistleblower' allegations as disturbance and distractions. He said that gone are the days where Kenyans were fooled and blinded in lies and duped into holding baseless rallies and protests. "I want to tell tinga ( Raila ) Wakenya  ata kama wamesoma na bursary tumeerevuka ata kwa maandamano, (I want to tell Raila that even if Kenyans have been educated through bursaries, they have become smart in issues of protests,"Nyoro said. "The circus is becoming even mad.I  have seen the whistle-blower who said he has his own results.Please give Kenyans a chance to move on," he added. It was announced that come Monday, Raila will issue a compressive statement on claims by a whistleblower that the 9 August 2022 presidential election was rigged. His spokesman Dennis Onyango said Raila will issue the statement at a rally in Kamkunji Grounds in Nairobi upon his arrival from South Africa. In a statement to newsrooms, Onyango said Raila is expected to land at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport at 11 am and thereafter proceed to Kamkunji for the People’s Baraza. “Odinga appeals to Kenyans to show up in large numbers at the Kamkunji Baraza in the interest of the country,” the statement said.