According to Medical News Today, an ear piercing is an open wound until it fully heals. In the modern world, people pierce not just their ears but also nose, navel, nipples and any part of their body they feel it's okay to pierce. However, piercings might start to smell due to a number of reasons as highlighted by Doctor Shila Kamau. Infection Kamau said it is easy for bacteria to enter the wound. "Bacteria can also infect healed ear piercings, especially if the piercing is unclean. Pus, dead skin from the infection can stick to earring posts and backs. This can cause a bad smell to linger," she said. The medic however, said cleaning the ears and earring posts with either rubbing alcohol or a special ear-piercing solution might help. She added that if the infection is painful or one has swollen lymph nodes one should make the effort of seeing a doctor. Kamau said infections of ear piercings can travel to other areas of the body, potentially becoming very serious. "People should see a doctor if the infection is in the cartilage of the ear. These infections can be more difficult to treat and may require stronger antibiotics," she said. Wearing the piercing longer The medic emphasised that people should make a habit of changing the piercings now and then. "When you wear piercings for long without changing them, chances are that dead cells may build up around the hole," she said. "This would not only cause a foul smell but you would also notice a thick textured plaque." People who regularly change their earrings experience this problem less often. Type of piercings Kamau said the type of piercings used may also lead to a bad smell. "Some people complain that if they put on some type of piercing, they feel itchy and have a swell," she said. "Some types of jewelry, such as certain metals or plastic, can cause irritation or allergic reactions in some people." The medic said this can lead to swelling, redness, and other symptoms that can cause a bad smell. Poor hygiene Kamau said it's important to clean and care for piercings properly to prevent infection and other problems. She said this involves regularly washing the piercings with soap, and water and drying it thoroughly. "It's important to avoid touching the piercing with your hands, as this can introduce bacteria and other microorganisms that can cause infection," the medic said. Environment Piercings may also smell due to the environment in which they are worn, she said. "Some people may work in dusty, unsanitary environments, which can make it difficult to keep piercings clean," Kamau said. "Some people live in humid or damp environments, which can also make it difficult to keep piercings clean and free of bacteria." How to make sure piercings don't smell To prevent piercings from smelling bad, it is important to clean and care for your piercings properly. One should avoid touching the piercing and use high-quality jewelry that is appropriate for one's skin type. "In addition, it is important to be aware of your environment and take steps to maintain good hygiene, to keep piercings clean and free of odour," Kamau said. Cleaning Methods According to Veganliftz, one should soak a clean cotton ball in the salt water, and then gently clean around the piercing. They said one should be careful not to move the jewelry too much, as this can cause irritation and make the piercing more susceptible to infection. "Once you have cleaned around the piercing, rinse the area with clean water to remove any remaining salt water," they said. After cleaning the piercing, it’s important to dry it properly. Gently pat the area with a clean towel, being careful not to tug on the jewelry.