Harambee Stars’ coach Engin Firat will name his assistant next week, according to Football Kenya Federation chief executive officer Barry Otieno. Otieno said the coach will arrive in Nairobi later in the week to begin his new job. Otieno also stated that Firat will hire a local coach. “Firat has requested that he bring an assistant coach. At the same time, we’ve given him permission to work with a local coach who will be able to understudy him,” he explained. However, Otieno said the federation may be unable to meet some of Firat’s demands. “He wanted us to have a medical person, which is something we haven’t done well in the past. We may not be able to meet this requirement for the time being. However, as time passes and we accumulate more funds, we will reconsider this proposal.” The Turk has been tasked with honing Harambee Stars’ talons in preparation for the Africa Cup of Nations finals in 2025. Firat has already signed a three-year contract with Harambee Stars, according to Otieno. “We were impressed with his experience and what he accomplished during his brief stint with the team. The federation believes he has what it takes to lead us to the 2025 Afcon.” He will be in charge of the national team’s return to the international stage after a year away due to a Fifa ban imposed on the country due to government interference. Otieno also revealed that Firat will earn Sh54 million during his tenure as manager of the Stars. “Firat will earn a monthly salary of Sh1.5m, according to a contract between the FKF and the tactician. This will take his annual salary to Sh18 million and Sh54 million for the three years he will be in charge.” In an earlier interview, Otieno said the FKF National Executive Committee met and decided to extend the tactician’s contract. “Firat remains the Harambee Stars coach. Our executive committee agreed to the extension,” Otieno said. Asked if Firat will be retaining his coaching staff, Otieno said the gaffer is free to choose assistants who suit his style best. “It has always been our practice to allow the head coach to pick the rest of his team and I believe Firat will unveil his assistants in due time,” Otieno said. Firat, 52, took over from Kenyan tactician Francis Kimanzi who resigned from the position in October 2020. Otieno also said the federation does not recognise Alex Alumirah as Harambee Starlets’ head coach.