Mwea residents have been urged to cultivate drought resistant food crops to curb the biting drought. MP Mary Maingi recommended farming of sorghum, millet and cotton as opposed to many annual crops like maize and beans, which hardly survive the harsh climatic conditions. The legislator spoke on Wednesday in Tebere during the distribution of  relief foodstuffs to residents who have been affected by drought. Maingi said the residents can use the crops either for subsistence or economic purposes. She said through the sale of the crops, the money generated can be used to buy other foods that will supplement their diets. Maingi said over the last two seasons, farmers from half of the constituency have had nothing to reap from their farms owing to the inconsistent rain patterns. She said as a result, 80,000 households from across Ndindiruku, Kangai, Murinduko, Wamumu and Tebere have been affected by drought and have no money to buy food. The first term MP further reiterated on the need to have the local ginnery fully functional to motivate many farmers to cultivate cotton. “I have had some engagement with the East African Breweries to buy some of our grains, which are key ingredients for their products. We also want the ginnery to be fully functional to spark farmers interest into growing the crop for economic value,” she said. The legislator also called for patience from her constituents even as they push for a review of the boundary delamination, which would see Mwea split into two constituencies; Mwea East and Mwea West. She said the matter is in the hands of IEBC, legal professionals and other relevant institutions. While supporting her Thika town counterpart Alice Ng’ang’a’s agitation for an increment of resources to populous constituencies, Maingi said it is only fair to review the formulae for resource allocation and have more funds channeled to such constituencies in order to spur economic growth. Hundreds of residents who showed up to receive the food  appealed to the government to continue assisting them as many are starving. Resident Peter Musyoka said he had tried to cultivate some crops but owing to lack of rains, the crops dried up leaving him with no option but to become a beggar. “We are grateful for the food donation because many residents are severally affected by the drought over lack of rains. Also a lot of residents don’t own land and live in rentals, which makes life even tougher,” he said. Josephine Wairimu decried over limited employment opportunities in the farms. She said this has rendered many casual labourers to go for months without money to help their families.