The Kisumu government has been urged to have in place a proper infrastructure to mitigate disasters in the newly upgraded towns. This follows the rampant cases of fire outbreaks across the trading and towns in the county. Senator Prof Tom Ojienda asked the county to allocate funds to establish an effective and efficient infrastructure that will help counter emergencies. He told the county government that as they upgrade centres to town, they need to focus on proper infrastructure, especially for emergencies. “We should have in place proper roads and fire fighters’ machines strategically in the county for swift response,” Ojienda said. On Thursday night, three shops were razed down in Katito town which saw traders incur huge losses. The traders lost goods worth millions. Clinton Akoko who deals in spare parts for motorcycles and bicycles said he lost goods worth Sh800,000. Katito town traders’ chairman Joel Nyangweso said the affected traders are now stranded after the fire incident. He appealed for help from the county government and other well-wishers to support them back to business. “We have 15 people who have been affected by the incident. Every trader incurred different losses,” Nyangweso said. Some of the shops were looted during the rescue operations. George Mikola, who also deals in spare parts lost goods worth more than Sh200,000. Rose Ouma, a trader said she lost goods worth Sh60,000. Her shop was looted by thugs purporting to be rescuing goods in the nearby shops. The traders however lauded Ojienda for his swift support to the traders affected. Ojienda, who donated 40 iron sheets and startup capital to the affected traders, said proper mechanisms should be in place to mitigate such disasters. “We are lucky we didn’t lose life but you can imagine what could have happened. The fire razed down the shops to ashes,” he said. The county manager's office of senator Simon Peter made the donation support to the traders on behalf of Ojienda. “It is a very sad situation for the traders in Katito town following the fire incident on Thursday night. Our office was notified at around 10pm,” Simon said. He said the senator’s office donated building materials such as iron sheets and startup capital to affected traders. The senator, Simon said, has pledged to support in case of emergencies the people of Kisumu county. Separately, traders in Pap Onditi are also counting losses after their shops were reduced to ashes on Wednesday. More than four shops were razed down. The cause of the fire was still unknown as police launched investigations. Ojienda also donated iron sheets and startup capital to those affected. He donated 20 iron sheets and startup capital to the traders.