Former Mukurweini MP Kabando wa Kabando has distanced himself from Azimio leader Raila Odinga that they don't recognise William Ruto's presidency. In his address to his supporters at the Kamukunji grounds on Monday, Raila reiterated his stance that the August 9 presidential poll was rigged. "We do not recognise the Kenya Kwanza administration as a legitimate government and Ruto as the president or any official in his government," Raila said in a hard-hitting statement. He spoke shortly after he jetted back from South Africa where he was on a week-long tour. But Kabando said it's not practical at this point and time to reject the legitimacy of Ruto's presidency. "This isn't practical now. I am in Azimio, but I recognise Ruto as president," the former legislator and ex-Sports assistant minister said. He, however, backed Raila's call to hold the Kenya Kwanza administration accountable for its unfulfilled promises. During his address at the packed Kamukunji grounds, Raila called on Kenyans to boycott punitive tax policies introduced by the Ruto administration. "We are asking Kenyans to resist the punitive taxes on common products by this regime," he said Kabando said this is a call the opposition must play with vigour saying the pushback on the unpopular and punitive policies must begin now. "Sitaki handshake..we reject unfair UDA policies...resistance starts now. Yes, we opposition must oversight vigorously," he said. Raila called on Kenyans to come out and defend what he termed as their right to electoral justice. He said a forensic audit of the IEBC results must be undertaken and that it was unnegotiable. "There will be no need for elections in 2027 until we sanitise the dirt in 2022, and there are no two ways about it. We will defend the rights of Kenyans to elect the leadership that they want," Raila affirmed. While speaking during the funeral of Trade Cabinet Secretary Moses Kuria's sister Nyokabi, Ruto said he will not be blackmailed into a handshake. "Look for a different person to threaten. I was elected by Kenyans in broad daylight. For you, you had the system, the deep state and the government, but we defeated you,” Ruto said. "The government of Kenya is not going to be blackmailed to serve the interests of a few people, their families and their businesses, that will not work, we are going to serve the people of Kenya,” Ruto added. Raila said he will hold another rally at the Jacaranda grounds next Sunday to continue pushing for electoral justice.