Borabu MP Patrick Osero on Friday raised concern over increasing cases of cattle theft along the Nyamira and Bomet counties boundary. The MP said his constituents were spending sleepless nights following the upsurge of the cases. Last week, the lawmaker together with security teams from Nyamira met Interior Cabinet Secretary Kithure Kindiki to raise the concern. “Over the last few months, we have had an upsurge in cattle rustling cases in the Borabu constituency. When we held a meeting with Kindiki and other security chiefs, we agreed that this menace must be dealt with once and for all,” said the MP. He spoke at Nyansakia village in the constituency during the burial of Donald Mogesi who was until his death an employee of the Borabu Constituency NG-CDF office. “These people think now that Fred Matiang’i (former Interior Cabinet Secretary) is not in government, they can play around. There is a government in place and I want to warn these rustlers that the government will deal with them,” Osero said. The cases of cattle rustling had gone down during Matiang’i tenure in office. The former CS hails from the Borabu constituency. The further added: “We recently held two meetings where over two hundred people attended and when they were asked to anonymously name suspected rustlers, 90 per cent named one person who was arrested. Police are investigating two others. Cattle rustling is becoming an organized crime which should be addressed.” The MP asked policemen from stations to step up patrols along the border and asked them to deal ruthlessly with the rustlers. He said he will improve the improving living conditions of police officers especially the Athi Stock Theft Unit posts at Memisi, Ensakia, and Kebuse. “Once we get CDF allocations, we shall do permanent structures for the officers who are living in deplorable conditions,” he noted. He assured residents that roads earmarked for tarmacking in the constituency are still in government programs. “The construction has slowed down but the projects will be completed because we got assurance from Roads Cabinet Secretary Kipchumba Murkomen,” he added. Further, the MP said sub-location committees will be formed to vet bursary funds beneficiaries. “The committees will be elected from sub-locations we want genuine beneficiaries to receive the bursaries,” Osero said.