The Nairobi County Government has yet again come to the rescue of a bright but underprivileged top KCPE performer and awarded her full scholarship. Deputy Governor Njoroge Muchiri on Monday awarded a four-year executive scholarship to Petronila Mutono. Petronilla Mutono was the top student in Embakasi South with 419 marks but could not join high school due to lack of school fees. "Today, it was a great honour to award her a four-year executive scholarship that will cover her secondary school education," Muchiri said. "We wish Petronilla all the best in her studies." The DG said the county was committed to supporting students in their education, acknowledging that a proper education will be their gateway to grow and advance personally, professionally and socially. Governor Johnson Sakaja lauded the deputy governor for the generosity and wished Mutono a successful academic journey. "Petronila go on and be great! The World is yours," he said. Mutono is the third student to receive sponsorship from the county government following Sakaja's intervention. Earlier in the month, the county extended scholarship to a top KCPE performer from Roysambu. "Thanks my brother Ngaruiya Junior for highlighting the story of Margaret from Roysambu who scored 391 in KCPE but lost hope for high school due to fees," Sakaja said in a brief on Twitter. "I’ve taken her up under our scholarship programme and will educate her for the next four years. She will excel," he added. Three months ago, Sakaja also pulled a homeless boy off the streets of Nairobi and pledged to finance his education. The county boss crossed paths with the boy by chance during an impromptu inspection of the paving of pedestrian walkways in the CBD on November 15, 2022. "Ibrahim Ali. This young man touched my heart. While inspecting works in the CBD, he walked up to me and said he wants to go to school. He has now found a family and will go to school. I see a bright future," Sakaja said. The boy had been living on the streets for months after being abandoned.