Some governors and leaders in North Rift have welcomed the decision by state to deploy KDF to secure six counties in the region from banditry. Elgeyo Markwet Governor Wisley Rotich, his Trans Nzoia counterpart George Natembeya and Baringo North MP Joseph Makilap said the move was long overdue. Natembeya said the KDF-led operation must succeed because if it fails then there would be no fallback in dealing with the bandits. “It’s a welcome move and we hope it will succeed because it has to. Where we are at the moment it's only KDF that can now deal with that situation,” Natembeya said. He said KDF should lead the operation for fairness in all areas. Interior CS Kithure Kindiki already declared the affected counties as disturbed and dangerous. The counties include Elgeyo Marakwet, Baringo, Turkana, West Pokot, Turkana, Samburu and Laikipia. Defence CS Adan Dwale also gazetted the involvement of KDF to back up the security operation in the disturbed counties. Makilap said the government should also use the operation to open up the region for development and strengthening of education programmes for residents to embrace modern lifestyles. “We also need the use of religion so that the residents especially the bandits can appreciate the importance of God,” Makilap said. Makilap, however, urged that the security operation should focus on areas where bandits hide. Rotich said the county would do anything possible to support measures aimed at restoring peace and security in the region. He said they would team up as leaders to ensure that they also preach peace and unity in all affected areas. “We will back up the security operation with peace meetings to sensitise our communities on the need to live in harmony with each other,”  Rotich said. Rotich met with the Catholic Bishop of Eldoret Dominic Kimengich to discuss the insecurity situation. Kimengich said the church would also take a leading role in peace initiatives in the affected counties. “We will ensure that we bring all the leaders together so that they also speak in one voice and help their communities embrace peace," Kimengich said. Natembeya said political leaders in the region should come out strongly to support the security operation instead of taking sides with their communities as has been the case in the past. “Some of the politicians are culprits because they finance and support banditry for political gains. This time they should come out openly and stand with the government in ensuring the security operation succeeds," he said. The leaders said the security teams must be well prepared and armed to battle with the hardened bandits who are used to the harsh terrain in the region. So far 100 people have been killed by the bandits in the region within the last six month.