Kenya Prisons men's coach David Lung'aho believes his charges are in better shape as the second leg of the Kenya Volleyball Federation men's league starts today at Nyayo Stadium. The Warders face an arduous task against perennial rivals the General Service Unit who are also the defending champions in the three-day championship. Wounded Kenya Defence Forces will also be a target as well as minnows Vihiga with Prisons keen to atone for their last season's dismal show that saw them finish fourth in the playoffs. Lung'aho, the former Malkia Strikers gaffer, said this is the right time to face their old foes even though the season is still in its infancy. A total of 24 matches are lined up in the 16-team league with the men's Division One league also serving off for the first time. "It is going to be tough considering the season is only starting. We want to lay down a marker by winning all our matches. The bare minimum must be seven points but I believe we have what it takes to claim all the points," Lung'aho said. He added: "This is the best time to meet GSU because they are not at their best. KDF are not a walk in the pack either but we should not underrate Vihiga. Winning today (against GSU) will give the direction of how our season will look like." "We have learned from last season's loss. We led 2-1 in the Heroes tournament in Mosoriot against GSU before a heavy downpour halted the match." Prisons have been boosted by the availability of setter Manuel Mwadori and left attacker Dennis Esokon who graduated from the Prisons Recruit Training School recently. Today's matches will see Equity Bank tackle Prisons Western, KPA entertain Prisons Central, Prisons Nairobi lock horns with Mombasa Prisons as Kenya Army rub shoulders with Kenya Forest Service. Other matches on the agenda include Prisons Nyanza against Rift Valley Prisons, Administration Police settle scores with Trailblazers as KDF hunt down Vihiga. On Saturday, Vihiga face Equity, Trailblazers come up against GSU, RVP play AP, KFS target Prisons Nyanza's scalp as Prisons Mombasa settle scores with Kenya Army. KPA take on Prisons Western. Eight matches are also lined up for Sunday.