Former champions Ulinzi Warriors take on Lakeside in a Kenya National Basketball League (KNBL) clash as Manyatta Arab courts in Kisumu on Sunday. The soldiers, who are joint top with Equity Bank Dumas on 32 points, having played a game more, will go into this game well aware of the fact that it was this fixture that complicated matters for them last year. Warriors’ assistant coach Esther Butali says they are prepared for the test ahead. A win will be a morale booster for Ulinzi, who are eyeing top spot ahead of the playoffs. The soldiers will, however, miss the services of one of the team’s mainstays and most experienced leader in centre Antony Bwire, who lost his father. “We have last year’s loss in mind and we have prepared accordingly now that we are going to play them at their comfort zone,” noted Butali, adding: “We are not underestimating them. We respect them and we shall give it our best.” “The boys are prepared. The energy levels in training have been high and quite encouraging to us as the technical bench. The players have to step in and play for Bwire and by all means give him this win.” Lakeside will on Saturday host Eldonet Platinum who are lying fifth with 26 points in a men’s game. Dave Michael’s Lady Bucks will also welcome Eldonets as the two hope to move off the relegation log. At the United States International University (USIU) courts in Nairobi, University of Nairobi Terrorists play Kenyatta University Pirates as UoN Dynamites also tackle Storms. On Sunday, Mike Oluoch’s Africa Nazarene University Wolfpacks and Panthers will play home sides Eldonets Platinum and Eldonets at the Uasin Gishu Primary School backyard. “We have trained well, but a lot of factors come into play in away matches, but we will not talk about that. We will remain focused on the job at hand as we go for nothing but maximum points,” said Oluoch. In Nairobi, Thunder who last week lost to top guns Ulinzi Warriors and Equity Bank, will meet relegation-doomed Zetech University Titans as KU face Umoja and Storms take on Zetech University Sparks.