Parents whose children got Elimu and Wings to Fly scholarships in Garissa county have been discouraged from transferring their children to other schools. If they are inclined to transfer their children, parents are required to notify the selection committee failure to which the students stand to lose the scholarship. Speaking at Garissa High School during the unveiling of the beneficiaries of the Elimu Scholarship, Garissa Equity Bank branch manager Shadrack Muithya took issue with some students whom he said were giving the committee charged with running the programme a difficult time by frequently asking for transfers. This, he said, would not be entertained saying that changing schools during the scholarship period will only be done if the reasons are found to be strong enough. “We are having a problem with some students who immediately after joining secondary school, and after their school fees has been paid, they come to my office asking to be transferred to another school. Most of them want schools that are in the home counties,” Muithya said. He said the reasons that were given by some of the students were very weak, adding that it all boiled down to lack of discipline which he said needs to be looked into. “I want to make it clear that a student may only change schools during the scholarship period, with our written approval and subject to fulfilment of any conditions we may attach to such approval,” he said. Muithya said that an application for approval of change of schools shall be made in writing and must be approved by ones home Equity branch. The branch manager further faulted parents whom he accused of not monitoring their children’s performance and ensuring that that they remain discipline throughout their academic period. “Throughout the duration of your scholarship, you must maintain good grades that are consistent to the performance you posted in KCPE and adhere to agreed targets as shall be set from time to time,” he said. “As for discipline, throughout your scholarship students under our programmes are required to maintain high discipline standards both at home and in school. We don’t want to see a situation where one is found engaging in activities that attract disciplinary measures by the school management.” On his part, Garissa Township MP Dekow Mohamed called on the students not to waste the opportunity presented to them by excelling in their academics. He discouraged parents against taking their children to private schools and instead take them to public schools where they stood better chances of getting sponsorship or bursary. “This obsession with taking our children to private schools even when you very well know that as a parent you are struggling to raise the school fees should stop," Mohamed said. Leaders who spoke at the event called on parents to take their role of moulding their children and ensuring that they maintain high levels of discipline even when at home during holidays. A total of 1,823 students were awarded scholarships, a joint programme between the national government and the World Bank, and which is being implemented by Equity Bank. A total of 383 Garissa students received the scholarships, which is the biggest share that the manager said was based on enrolment.  (edited by Amol Awuor)