History was made at the Baobab course in Vipingo where top Kenyan amateur Naomi Wafula became the first Kenyan player to make a cut in the Ladies European Tour (LET). Wafula, who teed it up in the company of leader Aditi Ashok and Alice Hewson of England, was among the 63 players who made the cut into the final two rounds. The Kenyan went to bed with a two day total of 9 over par 155 but her presence in the money bracket caught the attention of the highflying two-time Indian Olympian Ashok. “Yes, she (Wafula) is a good player. I was just talking to her about her round. She played well, save for a few holes where she made some mistakes. We have had good two days together and I believe Wafula can go far if she continues in similar spirit and fashion,” said Ashok. Wafula savoured her fairytale experience: “It’s such a good feeling to make the cut in the Magical Ladies Kenya Open for the first time. I can’t say I played much better than Thursday, nonetheless. I had a great time on the course especially playing alongside competition leader Ashok." Wafula wasn’t lucky to score a birdie but she was happy that her +3 Round Two score was better than the first day where she posted a +6. “Since I came to Vipingo, I have been doing lots of gym and the fact that I play here everyday has also contributed to my great knowledge of the course which was an added advantage,” Wafula added. Meanwhile, leader Ashok has vowed to hit the greens and fairways of the Par-73 PGA course with the much-needed precision and gusto heading into the weekend. The two-time Indian Olympian fired a round of 70 to close Day Two proceedings on the summit with 9 under par 137. She now savours a 5-stroke lead in the season-opening Ladies European Tour (LET) event which now heads into the last two rounds on Saturday and Sunday. Second with a score of 4 under par 142 is April Angurasaranee of Thailand followed by Marta Sanz Barrio of Spain on 3 under par 143. Aditi who made an eagle in Thursday’s hole 7 also vowed to deliver shorter birdie putts in the remaining two rounds which will determine the third winner of the event. Ashok remarked: “I still want to make more birdies in Round 3. I made fewer birdies today so I just want to get back to yesterday’s momentum, try and hit it closer and better, then hopefully, I can get shorter birdie putts.” “I managed a good putting experience today but it’s just that I have not had some short birdie putts,” Aditi quipped on returning her scorecard back to the Vipingo clubhouse. Earlier, Kenyan quartet of Mercy Nyanchama, Chanelle Wangari, home player Jacquelyne Walter and Nancy Wairimu failed to make the cut. Day Two Leaderboard -9 Aditi Ashok (IND) 67, 70 =137 -4 April Angurasaranee (THA) 71,71 =142 -3 Marta Sanz Barrio (ESP) 71, 72=143 -2 Alice Hewson (ENG) 71,73 =144 