The Institute of Human Resource Management (IHRM) has organized a four-day employees' wellness summit in Mombasa beginning Tuesday, February 21. The summit, held in partnership with Workpay, was graced by IHRM National executive chairman Philip Dalmas Odero and the body's executive director Quresha Abdullahi. The summit's keynote speaker was Dr Jacqueline Kitulu who is the board chairperson of Rocket Health. Kitulu in her remarks reiterated WHO's belief that health is a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or inﬁrmity. He called on the need for employers and HR professionals to ensure that employees' well-being is well catered to. "For individuals, workplace health programs have the potential to impact an employee’s health, such as their health behaviours; health risks for disease; and current health status," she said. "For organizations, workplace health programs have the potential to impact areas such as health care costs, absenteeism, productivity, recruitment/retention, culture and employee morale." Odero on his part said it has become clear that employee wellness is not just a personal issue but a national issue that affects the economy and society as a whole. He asked the nation to prioritize the health and well-being of the workforce to ensure their success and the success of organizations and of the country. "As an Institute we will continue playing a leading role in creating awareness and enhancing the capacity of HR professionals as they enable organizations to take care of their people and the nation at large," he said. Quresha noted that HR professionals play a crucial role in promoting employee wellness in the workplace. "It does not have to cost money, with innovation and the commitment to improve our places of work any organization can kick off this journey," she said. The executive director added that it is important for solutions aimed at improving employees' well-being to be anchored on policy for ease of implementation. "HR professionals have to also demonstrate the return on investment through regular reports providing metrics and analytics which justify the continued value for the organization when they invest in employee wellness," she said. IHRM has partnered with the Chiromo Hospital Group to raise awareness of mental well-being at the workplace and to equip HR professionals with the necessary skill for early detection and care as the custodians of people in their organizations. Through this partnership, IHRM Members can access a free session at any Chiromo Hospital Group centre or virtually and get subsequent sessions at a discounted rate. Members can also take self-assessment tools on the IHRM website to test for burnout, stress, and depression among others, and access support online. A survey conducted by IHRM indicates that benefits of employees well being include attracting and retaining talents, reducing absenteeism, building a culture of health and well-being and reducing healthcare costs. Others include increasing employee performance Nas enhancing engagement. It indicated that employee well-being is being prioritized in diverse organizations by sector and staff count. The survey further directed that employers should adopt policies that support employee well-being to yield more benefits. The survey was conducted between November 2922 to January 2023 and it factored in 141 respondents. A detailed report on the survey will be released on March 17.