Smartphone makers are increasingly adopting partnerships to grow their appeal to customers. In some instances, the partnerships have been on smartphone design colours and logos, appearing on the smartphone’s user interface elements. Whether it’s for marketing purposes or just for fun, special edition models are certainly nothing new to the smartphone industry. One of the latest partnership has seen smartphone maker-Realme teaming up with the global beverage giant Coca-Cola for its special edition of the Realme 10 Pro 5G smartphone. According to the Chinese phone maker, the new partnership will be looking to drive on success of such previous partnerships. The phone maker has previously achieved success through collaborations with famous film, anime, and gaming franchises, has now partnered with the globally recognized brand. The smartphone’s rear design is inspired by Coca-Cola’s classic design elements with a Red & Black collision presenting a young and fashion-forward attitude. “The 70/30 asymmetrical back design highlights the Coca-Cola logo with three points of black and seven points of red, making the classic logo instantly recognizable. Coke red gives a positive, youthful, and energetic feeling bringing new energy to the smartphone experience,” read a statement from the phone maker. The matte imitation metal process provides the touch of brushed aluminum while remaining resistant to scratches and fingerprints. Another noteworthy feature is the customized UI system, from the lock screen to the dynamic charging effect. Besides, ringtones are customized. Realme is keen to grow its market in Kenya which continues to record increasing demand and smartphone penetration. The International Data Corporation (IDC)  notes  smartphones gained 12.7 per cent, driven by the launch of new smartphones with rich features including high-speed internet. Smartphone shipments in Kenya now account for 72 per cent of total shipments, driven by entry-level handsets with price bands of between $100  (Sh12,346) and $200 (Sh24,693), and  mid-range of up to $450  (Sh55,559). According to GSMA’s The Mobile Economy Sub-Saharan Africa 2021 report, Sub-Saharan Africa with 40 per cent of its population under the age of 15, young consumers owning a mobile phone for the first time will remain the primary source of growth for entry-level smartphones. GSMA data shows the number of unique mobile subscribers will rise by 4.5 per cent to 613 million, as smartphone ownership is projected to grow to 61 per cent by 2025 from the current 49 percent. Rate of 4G adoption is also forecast to nearly double to 33 per cent over the period. Two months ago, Realme announced a plan to increase its research and development budget  by 58 per cent to bolster technology innovation and quality of smartphones with designs that appeal to young customers.