Kenyans were last month treated to a barrage of allegations from President William Ruto and Azimio leader Raila Odinga. The allegations were that there were attempts to bribe former IEBC commissioners to influence the outcome of the August polls. Ruto was the first to make the claims on January 17. "We now know that Chairman Wafula Chebukati, commissioners Abdi Yakub Guliye and Boya Molu as well as the CEO, Hussein Marjan, and their staff, were offered stupendous financial rewards to cooperate with the agents of impunity, but they bravely resisted." Ruto further claimed assassinating Chebukati was part of the ‘system’s ploy to overturn voters’ choice at the ballot. “We know that there was a direct attempt to abduct Wafula Chebukati and murder him so that the commission would be paralysed, or a compliant commissioner takes over and subvert the people’s sovereignty." On January 29 during the Azimio rally at Jacaranda grounds, Raila claimed Chebukati, Molu, Guliye and Marjan visited his home supposedly to solicit bribes. "Chebukati is saying there are people who tried to bribe him, his other colleagues Guliye and Molu too. I want to ask them what did you come to do at my house? What did they ask me for? I have pictures and if they continue playing I will make them public," Raila said. Chebukati has since dared Raila to release the photo evidence within 14 days or face legal action. The new development has left many Kenyans at crossroads wondering which side of the story is believable. The majority are wondering why neither Raila nor Ruto took the evidence to court during the presidential petition. Lawyer and governance expert Brian Mutie avers that the two protagonists are merely playing politics with the IEBC issue. He says any new evidence touching on the presidential election, no matter how credible, cannot be adduced in court at this juncture since the Supreme Court already dispensed the matter. “This is a matter in law we call res judicata. Supreme Court decision is final, once it makes a ruling on a matter there is no room for retrial. It’s now water under the bridge and this now becomes a political issue,” he said. Raila claimed that he beat Ruto at the polls with 8.1 million votes against Ruto’s 5.9 million and backed his claims with data contained in a dossier by Africa Vanguard. He said he does not recognise Ruto as a legitimate president and vowed to sustain protests to push him out of office. Mutie said with the door for legal recourse shut, Raila’s agitation for ‘justice’ can only be in the form of a political arrangement. “If it were a matter of a criminal nature, the door is open for that new form of evidence to be heard, but in Supreme Court, you cannot.” On the Chebukati assassination claims, Mutie dismissed it as yet another political gimmick. He said the president has timely security briefings and this matter must have come to his attention in good time for him to have taken appropriate action, but he didn’t. “We have agencies that are meant to address such issues like the DCI. If the president did not see it worth utilising those channels, then I think this becomes another political statement.” Mutie was, however, quick to point out that Ruto may have chosen not to pursue this matter for fear of political ramifications. “The stature of the person of one Raila Amollo Odinga, if you capture him and detain him because you have some evidence he was involved in a murder plot, that can bring the country to a standstill.  Maybe the president in his own wisdom or from his advisors may have taken that direction because you know Raila is a demi-god in the political arena,” he said. The governance expert said both Ruto and Raila are playing high-octane politics with each trying to assert their legitimacy; one as a bona fide president and the other as one whose victory was stolen. “Raila is assuring his supporters that he is not a weakling and that their votes were not in vain so they should not lose hope, he still has a fighting chance to occupy State House.” Mutie, however, dismissed as a mirage Raila’s apparent conviction that he can evict Ruto out of State House by whatever means. “It will not be possible for one Ruto to be vacated from the house on the hill unless there is what I could call, God forbid, a coup. This is not now part of the democratic principles under which our Constitution is domiciled,” he said. “So a coup d’etat has no room within our legal framework.”