Dressing your body can be difficult, sometimes because you do not know your body shape. Your body shape determines the type of clothes you should wear and those you should not. Did you know body shapes can come in the form of an hourglass, apple, inverted triangle, triangle, or rectangle? However, your body shape can be affected by your eating habits, pregnancy and exercise among other factors. Knowing your body shape comes in handy when ordering clothes online, and when choosing want to wear. You can take measurements at home to find your body type and it is okay to be in between two body shapes. Be creative when styling. Determining your body shape Use a measuring tape. Measure your shoulders, waist ( the smallest part of your waist), bust, and hips (the widest part of your hips). Note them down and decide which is which. If you don't have a measuring tape, use a mirror. Wear fitting clothes and observe your body in the mirror, note down the largest part of your body and measurements of your waist, bust, shoulders and hips. Below are some common body shapes you should know about and the clothes to wear to bring out your stunning physique. Hourglass Definitely, you are God’s favorite. This means your bust,  shoulders, and hips are of the same measurement and your waist is well-defined. We all know this body shape. If this is you, wear clothes that highlight your curves and waist. Let your tops fit your bust area and your waist. Apple/Oval It can be challenging to style this body shape. In this case, your shoulders, bust, waist and hips are either of the same measurements or your waist is slightly bigger than your bust and shoulders. Go for clothes that attract attention to your entire frame. Opt for tops that draw attention from your stomach. Inverted Triangle Your waist and hips are smaller your shoulders and bust are big. Your waist isn’t that defined. When dressing this body type, opt for flared dresses, wrap dresses and tops too. Avoid pairing tops with large shoulders with skinny trousers, tights, and trousers. Pear/Triangle Your hips are bigger than your shoulders, and your bust with your waist smaller than your hips. Your shoulders might be narrow. Opt for outfits that highlight your waist and avoid those that draw attention to your hips. Ft and flare dresses are also good. Opt for off-shoulders too for both dresses and tops. Rectangle Your bust, shoulders, waist, and hips are of the same measurements. You lack curves and your waist is not defined. It can also be called the athletic body. Avoid straight up and down; opt for dresses that give an illusion of an hourglass shape. Wide-legged outfits will also be fitting for you.