Kenya Simbas will grace the Currie Cup first division for the second year running in South Africa The tournament starts this weekend but the Simbas will enter the fray in April after the conclusion of the Kenya and Enterprise Cup competitions. The national team will face a stern test in the three-month competition against South African sides like Leopards, Valke, Boland Cavaliers, Eastern Province, Border Bulldogs and Goshwaks of Zimbabwe. Other teams set to compete include Diables of Spain, Tel-Aviv Heat of Israel and  Welwitschias of Namibia. The Simbas finished eighth last year on the log with 18 points having won three of the nine matches played. The Paul Odera-coached side beat the Border Bulldogs 35-12 in South Africa before recording back-to-back wins on home soil. They first beat Leopards 51-35 at the RFUEA ground and then recorded a memorable come-from-behind 41-24 victory over the Eastern Province at the same venue. The Simbas were using the competition as part of their preparations for the Rugby World Cup qualifiers in France, where they finished second to Namibia. Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) director of rugby Thomas Odundo said with the resignation of Paul Odera after the Rugby World Cup repechage in November last year, they will appoint a new coach by the end of this month. “We are looking at the end of February and he can take charge of the teams once we finish our domestic calendar in March," added Odundo. He said they were keen to host some of the matches in the competition at home just as they did last year. “We are exploring that possibility and once the competition starts in April, we will be in a better position to know if we will host," he noted. Elsewhere, record Kenya Cup champions Nondies lead the championship standings after eight rounds with 39 points. The White Shirts are unbeaten and will aim for a quick return to the Kenya Cup next season. South Coast Pirates and Daystar are joint second on the log with 29 points with Kisumu fourth with 26. Kabarak University (22 points) and   Impala (20 points) follow in that order.