KCB head coach Zedekiah Otieno was ecstatic after bankers registered an emphatic 3-0 win over hosts Vihiga Bullets at Bukhungu Stadium on Sunday to go second on the Kenyan Premier League standings. The massive victory propelled the Nairobi-based bankers to 33 points, one adrift of leaders Gor Mahia and one above tournament dark hoses Nzoia Sugar who have slumped down to third. The only goal of the first half came from Kennedy Owino, who rose high to head in Kevin Okumu's exquisite cross at the quarter-hour mark. The result was then out of reach after striker Nicholas Kipkirui set up Henry Onyango for a simple tap-in the 78th minute before Maurice Owino capped off what was generally a brilliant afternoon for the city lads with a precise penalty kick in stoppage time. "We played well and I'm glad we managed to pick all the three away points," Otieno said. "The outcome is worth celebrating given it has fired us to the second on the log." However, the ex-Kenyan and Gor Mahia right-back said it was too early to start discussing their prospects of a maiden title. "We came close to clinching the title two years ago after finishing second behind Tusker and everyone in the team would be happy if we went a step further this season. We are not under any sort of pressure to deliver the title at this stage and our sole aim is to take one game at a time," Otieno said. As Otieno marveled at his glorious performance, his opposite number at Vihiga, George Owoko, lamented their loss, attributing their dismal performance to deep-rooted financial constraints. "It is becoming increasingly difficult to compete effectively in a league of such magnitude without adequate finances. The players play with a lot of distractions making it difficult for them to concentrate fully throughout the game," Owoko said. "We have had a few well-wishers bailing us out and we feel grateful. The only permanent solution to this crisis would be to land a reliable shirt sponsor. All in all we played well and we hope to rectify the few areas that costus the match." Elsewhere, Bidco United collected a comfortable 2-0 win over Sofapaka at Moi Stadium Kasarani Annex. Patrick Nzuki put the visitors ahead in the 41st minute before Samwel Ndungu doubled the advantage in the 59th minute. AFC Leopards and Kariobangi Sharks played out to a barren draw at Nyayo Stadium on Sunday with Ingwe going for the eighth match without defeat.