Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Alliance will hold a three-day parliamentary group meeting for all its members from Wednesday next week. Though the agenda of the PG has not been disclosed, the team is said to be meeting to discuss a section of 'defiant' Azimio members. Since Azimio party leader Raila Odinga started the public rallies, a section of leaders has been missing in action. They include Nominated MP John Mbadi, Nominated MP Sabina Chege, Suna East MP Junet Mohamed, Former Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and all elected governors. "Should that be one of the agenda then in politics, loyalty is rewarded in instalments and disloyalty is punished instantly," Embakasi East MP Babu Owino said. Owino reiterated that leaders who were elected through Azimio and are abandoning Odinga should not be rewarded. "Those positions that have been given to disloyal members should be given to people like me," Owino said. Makadara MP George Aladwa faulted a section of leaders for seemingly abandoning Odinga after the elections. "Some leaders abandoned him in 2017 and they lost elections and after 2022 again they have abandoned him," Aladwa said. Odinga is expected to put his house in order and also read the riot act to the members. Azimio will hold its third public rally in Kibera which is perceived to be Odinga's stronghold in Nairobi. Minority leader Opiyo Wandayi said the rallies dubbed 'People's Baraza' will resume on February 5, (Sunday). Wandayi said the Sunday rally will be held at the Kamukunji grounds in Kibra. "We wish to inform our supporters, the general public and all Kenyans who feel for our country that our People’s Baraza is set to continue this week and the weeks that follow. "On Sunday, 5th February 2023, we will hold a BARAZA at the Kamukunji grounds in Kibra Constituency. This will be followed by another Baraza on Friday, 10th February 2023, this time in Mavoko, Machakos County," he said. He appealed to members of the public to attend the barazas and deliberate on the critical challenges facing the country.