Relegation-threatened Kisumu Lady Bucks are working round the clock to avoid the big drop, coach Dave Michael has said. The tactician said they are targeting three out of their remaining eight matches. Bucks are bottom of the 12-team table having garnered 17 points from 14 matches so far played. They have lost 11 while only posting three wins. “We have eight games to go and we are targeting three more wins beginning this weekend,” offered Michael, whose side must race against time if they are to avoid the axe. He revealed that this year has been a tough one for the self-supporting club that started playing at the top level eight years ago. He described this year as the toughest the team has ever experienced. Bucks, normally a hard nut to crack over the years, especially at home, have managed to post wins against Eagle Wings, Kenyatta University “Oryx” and Africa Nazarene University (ANU) Panthers. Michael said the team’s biggest challenge has been funding and the training venue. Besides, they have not also paid up the league fees and are worried of being kicked out by Kenya Basketball Federation (KBF) for non-compliance. “KBF is threatening to kick us out of the league. Family commitments have conflicted training schedule coupled with lack of consistent training venue and inadequate players,” he noted He said they have enough players but their challenge remains quality and availability. He said relegation would be a big blow to the lakeside city as this will scatter hopes for young upcoming players who had hoped to use these two clubs as a platform for exposure. He blamed the team’s inability to get a sponsor on the current difficult economic times.  On his players, he said, most of them are hardly available when the team needs them, especially for away games as they cite work and family commitments. “As a self-supporting team, we can't attract young quality players who are out there looking for scholarships because we have nothing to offer them apart from the platform to play. We're therefore not competitive in the players' market.” Two teams will be relegated at the end of the season with the top eight booking a playoff slot. Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology are placed 11th.  ENDS