The High Court in Nyamira upheld county governor Amos Nyaribo's victory citing a lack of sufficient evidence to quash his election. A voter, Dennis Ayiera, had moved to court to challenge Nyaribo's victory and wanted his win overturned over massive irregularities. However, on Thursday, Justice Kimondo Kanyi ruled that the elections were conducted freely, fairly and in accordance with the Constitution. The judge held that the petitioner failed to provide evidence beyond reasonable doubt that would warrant the cancellation of Nyaribo's victory. According to the judge, just like in any election, the Nyamira gubernatorial election was not perfect. He, however, observed that the anomalies noted did not meet the threshold to overturn Nyaribo's win. "The totality of any anomalies could not affect the outcome of the elections, since there is no election that is perfect," Justice Kimondo said. Ayiera also failed to prove beyond reasonable doubt that the first and second respondents committed any misconduct of any criminal nature. In his affidavit, the petitioner had alleged that Nyaribo’s election was not conducted in accordance with the law and that the IEBC did not conduct a free, fair and transparent election. Ayiera in his petition challenged the election and asked the court to order scrutiny and recount of votes. The complainant further claimed there were many errors that denied UDA governor candidate Walter Nyambati victory. He also claimed that there was an alteration of vote tallies, especially in form 37C, saying that handed Nyaribo an unfair victory in the polls. “IEBC maintained that the election was conducted in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with the law and hence the petition is hereby dismissed with costs,” Justice Kimondo said. The petition was filed on September 7, 2022, and was seeking to overturn the election of Nyaribo as governor of Nyamira County. Nyaribo, who contested on a United Progressive Alliance (UPA) party ticket, was announced the winner with 82,090 votes against Nyambati’s 49,281, a margin of 32,809 votes in last year's polls.