The county government of Garissa has launched the County Geospatial Strategy. The strategy formulated by the County Government and its partner Mercy Corps will enable the County to acquire an integrated Geographic Information System (GIS) system as well as develop a county spatial plan. The system which was launched by Governor Nathif Jama at the county headquarters will enable the County Government, communities, development partners and other stakeholders to plug in using specific custom modules. Some of these modules are lands, education, rangeland management, water, business information, revenue collection, disaster management, health services, agriculture and livestock, and project management among others. Governor Jama said the launch of the strategy could not have come at a more opportune time as it will help mainstream planning, decision making and monitoring across all departments. “County departments and other stakeholders will be able to align their programmes and projects with the County Integrated Development Plan and various Ward Development Plans,” the Governor said. He pledged his government's commitment to adopt and scale up the strategy to support development in the county. The department of ICT and of lands are the key players in this system. WFP and Garissa University are also key stakeholders. Mercy Corps has provided technical and financial support towards the strategy and will continue to assist the county to establish a GIS laboratory in the county. “As Garissa commits to implement this strategy, Mercy Corps commits to offer the necessary support and advice to the county to help the realization of this ambitious plan, for the benefit of the people through the improvement of their quality of life and for the conservation of nature,” Mercy Corps Country Director Dr Abdi Kunow said. The launch was attended by County Secretary Mohamud Hassan, CEC for Education & ICT  Ebla Minhaj, CECM Lands and Physical Planning Mohamed Hussein, and CECM Culture, Gender, Youth & Sports Hawa Abdi among others. Abdi was accompanied by Matt Lucas - Director of Programs, Siyat Gure - Deputy Chief of Party LMS, Abdifatah Dakane - Program Manager Asal Adapts, Ahmednoor Abdullahi - County Project Coordinator, Mohamed Yassin - County Programme Coordinator among others.