Mombasa Governor Abdulswamad Nassir has finally released his list of appointees to serve as chief officers in various departments in the county. The 16-member list released by Nassir Tuesday evening saw four chief officers who previously served under former governor Hassan Joho’s regime retained. ICT chief officer Anwar Said is one of the four who bounced back and will be in charge of the newly created Digital Transformation department. Anwar has been instrumental in revamping the ICT department in Mombasa County having played a key role in implementing the first-ever robotics and coding program for PP2 children across the county. Others who cut include Engineer Albert Keino who has been handed back the Transport and Infrastructure department, and Dr Pauline Oginga who was the chief officer for Public Health will now serve in the Environment and Solid Waste Management as Dr Shem Patta moves to the department of Clinical Services. Other individuals appointed to serve include; Ali Abdulrahman (Lands, Housing and Urban Planning) Shehan Nanda (Blue Economy, Agriculture and Livestock), Jibril Maalim Mohammed (Policy and Planning) and John Kipyegon Kiprop to serve in the department of Renewable Energy, Natural Resources and Climate Change Resilience. Roselyn Sidi Randu has been handed the Education department, Khamis J. Kurichwa (Youth, Gender and Social Services), Justina Kavuu Mwikya (Public Service Administration), Swaleh Mwalizuma (Tourism, Culture and Trade), Gloria Wandoe Mwasi (Finance and Economic Planning), Rukiya Abdulrahman (Governance), Abdalla Daleno (Public Health and Disease Prevention) while Mariam Mapenzi will serve in the Water and Sanitation department. These appointments come nearly a month after the governor named his ten-member cabinet after more than three months since he was sworn into the office together with his deputy Francis Foleni Thoya last September. Last December Nassir directed the Mombasa county public service board to advertise for the positions to seek suitable, qualified and competent people to fill the vacancies. Most county governors appointed political cronies, supporters and relatives to the executive but Nassir said he won't go that route opting to invite competent people to apply for the positions. The decision he said was to ensure Mombasa gets the right people, qualified in the professional fields that they will be picked to serve. The governor also appointed Shariff Omar to head the Land formalization and regularization committee who will be joined by Mohamed Faraj, Rahma Kazungu Yeri and Nelly Atieno Winga as members. Nassir also appointed members to the county budget economic forum including Peter Gichamba and Ahmed Abdalla representing the business community, bishop Tee Nalo representing the Christian faith-based communities as well as Sheikh Hamad Kassim representing Muslims. Others include Atrash Ali to represent community-based organisations, Susan Muthoni (Kenya Association of Manufacturers), Lynette Kamadi (Labor), Jane Katisya (Hotelier), Abubakar Ali (Senior citizens) and Rukia Rashid to represent women. The governor also appointed Dalton Mwaghongo to chair the Elimu fund mandated to receive monies meant for bursaries and education loans from the country treasury and education partners and administer the same to beneficiaries from the county. Members of the Elimu Fund will include Abdul Bagha, Bennet Nzamba, Samirah Abdallah and Ahmed Muhamed. Nassir also appointed Diana Ngao as the new director of the governor’s press service.