Nairobi Governor Johnson Sakaja has started a plan that, if fully rolled out, will see street vendors and hawkers in the city’s central business district removed and relegated to the back alleys. The city decongestion plans are in top gear in line with the governor’s ambition of an orderly and working capital. Already, the governor has constituted a multisectoral team working to find alternative slots for the traders so that the CBD decongestion plans do not unnecessarily disrupt their legitimate businesses. The Sakaja administration said that on Wednesday, the multisectoral panel inspected various lanes in the backstreet and has started demarcation works as well as clearing dirt in the areas to make them habitable for trade. “Nairobi City County government has initiated the process of relocating informal traders operating within the Central Business District to the backstreet lanes,” the administration said. “This morning, a multi-sectoral committee team inspected Turkana lane near the bus station, which is currently undergoing paint works.” It said 10 lanes which will serve as prototypes in the decongestion plan will have sheds erected and electricity installed to improve the working conditions of the traders. Other areas earmarked as prototype in the pilot phase include Sotik, Turkana, Dubois, Posta and Kirinyaga lanes, among others. The governor said that though it is a business-friendly government, it wants the traders to flourish under the restraint of the law to ensure order. Drives to relocate hawkers and street vendors by City Hall is not new. It has remained a thorny issue over the years, with drives by successive Nairobi administrations failing to bear fruits. For example, in November 2017, the then-governor Mike Sonko had ordered that the traders be relocated to the Kariokor. He said he had identified Mwariro market in Kariokor to be the permanent place to relocate hawkers who had invaded the CBD, posing a security challenge. “My administration has a comprehensive plan to ensure hawkers’ interests are taken care of. As a long-term measure, my administration has identified Mwariro market to be transformed into a hawkers’ market,” Sonko said at the time. Part of the Sonko relocation plan was to acquire the Kenya Planters Cooperative Union building situated along Haile Selassie Avenue and transform it into a hawkers’ market. However, he said that the process would be progressive and phased out to ensure the traders did not suffer disruption and losses in their ventures. He was also to designate streets and streets and lanes where they can freely do their businesses without obstructing other people as well as other business owners. But the drive of the populist former governor fell flat on its face, putting to question how far Sakaja is willing to go to ensure his approach works this time around. Cat and mouse games between the hawkers and the city law enforcement are usual as the askaris seek to arrest them for trading in disallowed areas. Francis Mwangi, who sells trousers in the CBD every evening, told the Star the move by the governor would result into losses in the businesses. "It is the trader who goes looking for the customer, not the other way round. Putting us in the invisible backstreet will affect our business," he said.