A baby’s growth is the one thing in the world we cannot contend with. Whether we like it or not, babies will grow up and outgrow their clothes every few months. They demand accurate sizing for their current age or weight group before outgrowing those clothes in a few months and moving on to the next sizing. Therefore, having a handle on your baby’s clothing is not only crucial for their physical wellbeing but also to the mother's mental health. For those unfamiliar with baby clothes, baby sizing starts from premature and newborn. Then the sizing continues with three or six month gaps, that is, three to six months, six to 12 months, 12 to 18 months and so on. Babies' clothing is something that will undoubtedly overwhelm you if you do not have a grip on things. I, for one, started collecting baby clothes in my third trimester. Since it was our first time, my husband and I were out of our league when it came to shopping for the new arrival. To compensate, we bought everything! This means we bought a variety of sizes from newborn to one year. Visitors also prefer to give new babies bigger clothes as they would wear them for much longer. I am guilty of using this gifting method myself. Now to my organisational schematic: the items that I need and use in the interim always have priority in the closet space. They are divided by type and functionality. For instance, onesies are categorised together, shirts together, bottoms together and the clothes I need for outings will be bundled together as well. The rest of the clothes will go into a storage bin. Just like the master of organising, Marie Kondo, I am a big fan of storage containers. I bought several containers to serve different purposes in my home. I have a container for toys, a container for bigger clothes, a container for outgrown clothes and one for miscellaneous items like swimming clothes, bottles, teether and the likes. The key to being organised with baby clothes is to be two steps ahead at all times. The storage container that holds my son’s bigger clothes is organised in ascending order at all times. The clothes that I would need immediately after he has outgrown the current age group will be found at the top of the pile then the next age group will follow and so on until the bottom of the pile will consist of the biggest sizes I own. This makes it easier to pick and go as needed. I also find it helpful to phase in the new age clothes by phasing out the old. This way, there is enough space in the closet for what is needed without hoarding things that do not fit the baby anymore. Although I keep a storage bin for old clothes, I make sure to donate most of the baby clothes as soon as he has outgrown them since they no longer serve a purpose in our home. I do admit that I have kept a few sentimental items. Having a rotational organisational schematic is necessary not just for baby clothes but anything else baby-related. Babies outgrow toys and developmental tools with every new milestone. As soon as they outgrow a certain item, make sure to wrap it up nicely for storage or simply give it away.