Former Mukurwe-ini MP Kabando wa Kabando has announced his exit from Narc Kenya citing a shift in political ideology. In a statement on Tuesday, Kabando said he has notified the Registrar of Political Parties to officially expunge his name from the Martha Karua-led party. "As a matter of conscience and principle, I have instructed Office of the Registrar of Political Parties to deregister I, Hon Kabando wa Kabando, from Narc Kenya. I believe in leadership teamwork and honesty. I detest chicanery and corruption. I thank Martha Karua and wish her well in Azimio ventures," Kabando said. The decision brings to an end almost a year of political partnership between the former assistant minister and the Narc Kenya leader. Kabando joined the party on March 13, 2022, after "a robust discussion between him, his campaign team, his financiers and supporters." He sought to unseat Nyeri senator Ephraim Maina on the party ticket after ditching Paul Muite's Safina party citing the incompatibility of the party's ideology with his political ambitions. "We reiterate our resolve for clean, decent, issues-based and non-violent Campaigns. Our focus is social justice, social democracy and war on graft," Kabando tweeted. In his statement on Tuesday, however, Kabando said the dynamics have shifted even as he remains committed to fighting corruption and impunity. He revealed that the decision to join the Azimio-allied Narc Kenya was based on the vision to revamp the defunct National Rainbow Alliance which kicked out the Moi regime after a 24-year rule. "My family, confidants, allies, friends, and colleagues know of my tenacious support and trust in Martha Karua to compliment Raila Odinga in our elusive quest to rekindle a national rainbow to crash graft and impunity. I regret we've lost it. Hopefully, we'll reconnect better soon," Kabando said. The former lawmaker, however, stated that he will continue to boldly play his patriotic role to hold the Kenya Kwanza regime accountable. He said the Azimio camp is on a similar mission but the outfit is using democratic undemocratic means which he seeks to dissociate himself from. "I'll continue to boldly and independently, or in league with like-minded souls, play my patriotic part to keep President Ruto's increasingly rogue regime in check. Sadly, neither ODM nor Narc Kenya is acting institutionally in this endeavour. Cultistic politics is bad for democracy," Kabando said.