The Ministry of Education has revealed a number of courses to be offered by the newly proposed Open University of Kenya. The institution will be built at approximately Sh250 million and will be domiciled at JKUAT. According to a notice in the local dailies, the ministry wishes to work with experts to develop programmes for the first phase. The courses listed include Bachelor of Science in Cyber Security and Digital Forensics, Bachelor in Technology Education and Bachelor of Data Science. "Bachelor of science in business and entrepreneurship, bachelor of economic and statistics, bachelor of science in Agri-technology and food systems," the notice reads. Postgraduate diploma courses include leadership and accountability, learning design and technology. The notice was signed by Higher education PS Beatrice Inyangala. "Those interested in developing the above programs will be expected to work independently and also collaboratively with other experts as well as ministry," the notice reads. Interested candidates were asked to submit their applications by February 28. According to 2022/2023 supplementary budget estimates, the Open University will be operationalized at a cost of Sh250 million. The university will operate like other institutions but will only have virtual classes, no physical learning. The university education sub-sector is likely to get a reduction in budgetary allocation by Sh1.9 billion. According to 2022/2023 supplementary budget estimates, four out of five departments in the Ministry of Education will receive budget cuts. This is apart from the early learning and basic education with an increase of Sh17.6 billion and Teachers Service Commission with Sh6.4 billion. "Rationalization of allocation to capital projects in various public universities," the report reads. The ministry will have an enhanced budget of Sh19.6 billion up from Sh544bn allocated in 2022. The university education sub-sector is likely to get a reduction in budgetary allocation by Sh1.9 billion. According to 2022/2023 supplementary budget estimates, four out of five departments in the Ministry of Education will receive budget cuts. This is apart from the early learning and basic education with an increase of Sh17.6 billion and Teachers Service Commission with Sh6.4 billion. "Rationalization of allocation to capital projects in various public universities," the report reads. The ministry will have an enhanced budget of Sh19.6 billion up from Sh544bn allocated in 2022.