Former Vihiga Queens coach Alex Alumira believes the conducive working environment at Fountain Gates Club will enable the team reach the desired heights after hitting another milestone on Sunday. Alumira guided Fountain Gates to glory at the inaugural Cecafa Under-15 girls category, annihilating Ethiopia's SS Awaru 3-0 in the final played in Dar-es-Salaam. The institution will represent the region in the CAF U-15 category that will be played in April, South Africa for the first time. Alumira's 18-months tenure in Tanzania thus far also includes  winning the 'Fursa Sawa Kwa Wote' trophy. Fountain Gates, who are currently second in the Serengeti Women's Premier League, beat powerhouse Simba Queens 1-0 in the regional finals last May. "Even though I was born a winner, the freedom to work independently is crucial. In Tanzania, everybody plays their roles and there's no interference.  Mistakes are yardsticks for learning but back home you will be slaughtered for your mistakes," Alumira said. "I am proud to be a pioneer of the Cecafa tournament. It's an honour and a legacy we have set . That shows my ability as a coach that, with proper structures, nothing is impossible." Alumira moved to Tanzania in August 2021, initially joining Tiger Queens but his short tenure at the Arusha-based side saw the three-time WPL- winning coach, with Vihiga, join Fountain Gate in April 2022. Fountain Gates are two points behind league leaders and defending champions Simba, who have 22 from nine matches in the 10-team competition. Simba are also the Cecafa Club champions. Alumira said they are eager to cut short Simba's dominance by winning the league after falling short last season. "We want to write another chapter with the girls by ensuring that we are champions come the end of the season. Simba and JKT are a cut above but we have what it takes to break the monotony considering we finished second last season." Alumira left Vihiga Queens unceremoniously as the team was preparing for the 2021 CAF Champions League qualifiers. The spine of his Vihiga team are abroad on professional stints.