At least six Kenyan athletes are out of the World Cross Country Championships starting in Bathurst, Australia, this weekend. Team Kenya head coach Julius Kirwa said the six were dropped due to injuries and visa issues. He said Irene Cheptai, who finished third in the women’s 10km race at the National Cross Country Trials is nursing an Achilles tendon injury while compatriot in the senior race Viola Chepng’eno has been sick and therefore unable to travel. Kirwa said that both athletes had already left the camp as the team prepared to depart for Bathurst last night. Beatrice Chebet replaced Cheptai while Beatrice Chepkoech, who was initially in the relay team, was also brought on board. Coach Kirwa said despite late consideration for the senior race, Chepkoech is the strongest of all. The two will join Grace Loibach, Edinah Jebitiok, Agnes Jebet, Emily Chebet, and Cynthia Chepng’eno for the trip. He said the women’s under-20 race is the most affected with four athletes already out. They include Sheila Chebet, Nancy Cherop, Marion Chepn’etich, and Diana Cherotich. The four failed to secure their visa. The exit of the junior women’s athletes, he said leaves them with only four athletes to compete. He, however, revealed that they are trying to see if Brenda Chebet, who is in the mixed relay will accept to join the four. Chebet is expected to start the 2km in the mixed relay. “Recovery time between the 2km relay race and the Under-20 women’s race is about 50 minutes and I am sure she can make it,” he noted. The exit of the four leaves Dianah Chepkemoi, Joyline Chepkemoi, Faith Cherotich and Pamela Kosgei to fly the country’s flag at the global show. Athletics Kenya official Salat Abdilahi and chaperon Ruth Bundotich are unlikely to travel due to visa hitch. Despite the setback, Kirwa was still optimistic about doing well in Australia. “ The men’s senior 10km and junior 8km teams are  still intact,” said Kirwa . The senior men’s team will feature an experienced squad including—Daniel Simiu, Geoffrey Kamworor, Kibiwott Kandie, Nicholas Kimeli, Emmanuel Kiprop, and Sebastian Kimaru. Coincidentally, everyone in the senior men’s race is also a road racer and most have had stints on track. The junior race on the other will have Reynold Kipkorir, Daniel Kinyanjui, Dennis Kipkurui, Ishmael Kirui, Dennis Mutuku and Charles Rotich. The team was expected to leave last night through Doha, where they were expected to spend the entire day today in a hotel before continuing with the trip this evening.