The newly-appointed chairman of the WRC Safari Rally organising committee, Carl Flash Tundo has promised to leverage his vast experience as a driver to guide the event to new heights. On Monday, Tundo said he would light up the country’s streets and jungles with a spectacular event that would probably surpass everyone’s expectations. The renowned motorsport icon made the remarks after receiving his appointment certificate from the Cabinet Secretary for Sports, Ababu Namwamba, at the Kenya National Library Services. “I consider it an honour to serve as the committee’s chairman. I’m not going to fail you. I intend to approach this position with the same fervor, tenacity, and dedication that I did during my protracted career in rallying,” said Tundo. Tundo encouraged his colleagues to work together to deliver a quality product. “We already know that time is not on our side, but the diligent work of everyone involved in the project will guarantee that we finish on time. The dedication of each person to the group effort is what makes a team successful. And that is all I ask of the local organising committee.  Success will take care of itself if everyone is moving forward at the same time,” said Tundo. Namwamba the country has already laid the ground to launch the much-anticipated global motorsport show. “Last week, I held a virtual meeting with the promoters of this rally and I believe we are at a level where it should be all systems go,” Namwamba said. The CS also requested the WRC Safari Rally team to prepare book of accounts detailing expenditure of money for sponsors once the competition is over. “In this rally, we want to see good value. We want to know how the government is spending every cent and shilling on this rally. Cut back on frivolous and unnecessary spending,” said Namwamba. “We took our time carefully finalising the details and went through the rally’s budget, line by line. As a result, we have given careful thought to the resources we will release for both the Equator Rally and the Safari Rally. We demand prudent use of the resources that we are going to put into this rally.” Namwamba praised the sponsors for their steadfast and consistent support of the event. “Continue supporting the rally and other sports, please. And it would be wonderful if you could step up your support. We want to use local drivers in this rally, and we would like you to adopt them. If you decide to go that route, we will be able to put together a very powerful Kenyan contingent,” he said. Namwamba said the government expects to see a deliberate effort to empower the common mwananchi through the rally. “The team leading the rally should ensure that the benefits of this rally are felt at the bottom of our social and economic stratum. Member of the National Assembly’s sports committee, Jackson Kosgey, said they were prepared to pass laws encouraging the expansion of Safari Rally. “At the moment, Africans are the ones telling their stories. We are diverse people with enormous potential, which we express and show by sharing our stories. We will represent you. Please do not be hesitant to suggest any legislation that will help Carl Tundo conduct his work in a conducive environment,” said Kosgey.