Seven counties have so far registered for the forthcoming Kenya Swimming Federation (KSF) elections slated for April So far, Nairobi, Nakuru, Kajiado,  Kisumu, Tharaka Nithi, Machakos and  Kiambu are compliant with the polls, according to the sports registrar. Speaking on Tuesday,  KSF Nairobi Country Association secretary,  Kenneth Kara believes with a quorum of eight, the FINA Stabilisation Committee, can go ahead and start preparations for the polls. "I believe the committee should go right ahead and start laying the groundwork for the elections and the sooner they start, the better for Kenyan swimmers. We need to put this process to bed,” added Karani. "As currently constituted, our swimmers are now competing under a neutral flag and we need to have the polls done so we return to normalcy in the sport,” added Karani. The FINA Stabilisation Committee had its mandate extended by six months by the world governing body and they now need to serve until June. Committee member, Francis Mutuku, said he is confident the elections will be done within the next two months. “ We don't want to wait until the deadline in June if the stakeholders can work with speed then within the next two months we can have the elections,” added Mutuku. He said there will be a consultative forum with all stakeholders on Saturday to chart the way forward on the polls. “We have a meeting this weekend as a follow-up to the one held two weeks ago to assess the situation at the moment,” noted Mutuku Elsewhere, the KSF Kiambu branch has embarked on an ambitious project to spread the sport to public schools in the county. The federation will be sponsoring five galas in a bid to nurture swimming talents in the area. KSF Kiambu public relations officer, Nesmus Mbati, expressed optimism about the move. “We are trying our best to make this dream possible for the children in Kiambu including those from Kiandutu Slums in Thika and crime-prone areas. For the few that participate in our galas, it is clear that there is massive potential which if properly tapped and managed, will make the country proud," he said  