A European envoy in Nairobi has asked the government to reduce bureaucracy, warning it was being exploited for corruption. Hungarian ambassador to Kenya Zsolt Meszaros said red tape and long processes were also hurting Kenya's international trade relations. He said a lot of international investors have lost hope and gone to try their luck in other African countries,owing to a long and expensive process before one can start operating in Kenya. Meszaros urged the government to digitalise some of the vetting and approval processes, to make them cheaper and also reduce cases of corruption from arising. "The government must move with speed to reduce the process of allowing international traders and investors to invest," he said. "The process at times has seen some investors going to other countries where they invest, make jobs for people and create trade relations," he said. However, the envoy added that Kenya has good fertile soil, conducive weather and big lands where people can invest, saying there was a chance and space to improve relations as well as to invest. He spoke at St Paul's University students amphitheater during a public lecture on Thursday themed "How can Africa Help Europe?" Meszaros also asked the government to enlighten its people about the need to pay taxes, saying some do not fully understand why axes are needed. The envoy told the students that it was important to pay taxes at the right time, since the money helps the government implement its development plans among other issues. The envoy told the students to be creative and innovative so as that they can help the country grow and develop. "You cannot copy what Europeans do and come to practice it here. You have well talented people, be innovative and come up with strategies of developing your country," he said. St Paul’s university deputy vice chancellor in charge of academics Prof Peter Ngure says that the lecture has opened the students and the teaching fraternity's thinking that the country can achieve so much. Prof Ngure revealed that they are looking for strategies where they can partner with Hungarian universities so that students can expand their research as they look for different ways to improve. The diplomat added that African countries were developing faster and soon, people in Europe will be coming to Kenya and other African countries looking for job opportunities. The envoy noted that, if well planned and there are better trade relations, African countries can feed Europe with vegetables, fruits and other types of food. (Edited by V. Graham)