Garissa Township MP Dekow Mohamed has urged the government to quickly address challenges bedevilling the Competency-Based Curriculum by posting enough teachers in schools. Speaking on Monday during the closing ceremony of Sunna Education Schools in Deka Burey, Iftin ward, Dekow said that there was no meaningful learning taking place in many schools, not only in Garissa, but across the region. “Even before Grade 6 pupils transitioned to Junior Secondary School, we were already facing a big shortage in terms of teachers following mass exodus on non-natives as a result of insecurity, and now all the TSC (Teachers Service Commission) did was to post a single teacher in each school,” he said. “It is practically impossible for one to teacher to teach 14 subjects like it is currently the case in many schools. What this will do is that it will not only lead to poor grades but entire education standards will be compromised.” Dekow's comments come barely a week after MPs called on the government to speedily address challenges plaguing the new curriculum, or else abolish it altogether. In a rare show of unity, the MPs promised to continue pressing government to address the many challenges plaguing the new system of education that replaced the nearly four-decades-old 8-4-4 system, saying that there is no meaningful learning going on despite the new uniforms for Grade 7 learners. TSC recently recruited 30,000 teachers for JSS but many institutions received between one and three new teachers. The MP also used the opportunity to launch an online application platform for bursaries which he said will go along way in improving access to education funding for students in secondary schools and colleges. “I want to appeal to parents from the constituency with students in secondary schools seize this opportunity and apply for the bursary which only comes once a year. We want to complete the exercise before the end of march,” he said. The newly sworn MP further discouraged parents against taking their children to private schools and instead take them to public schools where they stood a better chance of getting scholarship  and bursaries. "This obsession with taking our children to private schools even when you know that as a parent you are struggling to raise the schools fees should stop,” he said. The MP said education was among his priorities in the constituency and he is working towards achieving his target by ensuring all students get support to fulfil their dreams.