Beatrice Chebet, the world's top female cross-country runner, reckons that her masterstroke performance in Australia has fueled her desire for success. Chebet, who stormed to the gold medal at the World Cross-Country Championships in Bathurst, Australia, a week ago, has vowed to cap off her illustrious career with one more vintage performance at the upcoming World Championships in Budapest, Hungary, in August. "I'll be concentrating on the track in Budapest, Hungary, and I'm confident that I can excel. I was quite driven to compete in the World Cross Country Championships in Australia. I had a nice foundation to build on as I got ready for the 2017 World Championships," Chebet said. The diminutive runner who sports an American Marine shave blazed to the winner's podium in Australia after pulling off a shock victory over pre-race favourite Ethiopian Tsigie Gebreselama whom she beat to the second position. Chebet timed 0:33:48 to win gold ahead of Gebreselama (0:33:56) and compatriot, Agnes Ngetich (0:34:00). "I never in a million years thought I'd be standing on the podium in Australia. I was aware of my body's poor condition. Only because I took the risk and mentally prepared myself to handle the task did I succeed, and I'm pleased I did," Chebet said. "I give thanks to God because winning the gold medal is no little accomplishment. Athletic competition is a difficult endeavour. I initially mentally prepared myself to accept second place because it appeared as though my opponent would win the race handily after a challenging one." The National Police Service officer said that her aspirations to storm to the gold podium in Hungary are now unstoppable after her Australian landmark victory. She will be eyeing another glory in the women's 5,000 meters after scooping a silver medal during the bristling Oregon 22 championships in the USA last year. "Fortunately, the course of events shows that people can achieve their goals if they keep trying. Even athletes of a calibre who are regarded as unstoppable can be defeated with attention and drive." Chebet has pledged to light up the track in Budapest, adding that she will not rest on her laurels until she realizes her solemn dream of shattering the World record. "I motivated myself and had faith in my ability to win a gold medal. Now I can do anything, even break a world record. Now all I have to do is continue my training and practice the necessary discipline."