God is the only stakeholder of Kenya, everyone else is just but a servant, Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua has been told. Rev Moses Ndegwa who delivered the summon during the Azimio la Umoja prayer rally at Jevanjee gardens said it's politically incorrect to claim that there are those who own Kenya. "There are things when looked at politically are not acceptable. When you stand and say Kenya is a company and has stakeholders, we stand on the side of God and say Kenya is our country, our motherland," he said. The man of cloth was responding to Gachagua's remarks on Saturday in Kericho that as a company, Kenya's shareholders are those who voted for the Kenya Kwanza government. "This government is a company. There are those who own it, those with many shares, those with fewer shares and those without," he said in reference to the voting patterns in the August polls. The DP told farmers they were getting subsidised fertiliser because they invested in the 'company' by way of voting for him and President William Ruto. "Sasa lazima mvune (so you must reap)," he said. But Rev Ndegwa faulted the DP, saying all the over 42 tribes of Kenya have equal claim to the country regardless of their political affiliation. "The overall shareholder of this country is the almighty God. He owns the world. He owns the nation, we are just stewards," he said. "Sisi ni wafanyikazi tu, mwenye kazi atarudi na atatuuliza tulifanya nini na chenye tulipewa," Rev Ndegwa added. (We are just servants, the owner of the work will return and will want to know what we did with what he gave us) Gachagua has come under heavy criticism over his remarks which appeared to mean the government he serves in as the second in command is out to punish its critics. His remarks appeared to mean if you never voted for the Kenya Kwanza regime, forget about the national cake. "Najua wengine wananikashifu ati mimi nasema ati wale walipanda wavune kwanza, iko makosa? he asked. (There are those criticising me for saying those who planted should reap first, where is the problem?) "Hata hao watavuna lakini wangoje. Wale walipande wavune kwanza, wakishavuna ile itabaki kidogo wale hawakupanda waingie watafute huko ile itapatikana wachukue," the DP said. (Even those who didn't plant will reap after those who planted first have done so. Whatever little they get will be theirs)