Azimio la Umoja is concerned with continued snub of its People’s Barazas by governors elected on the coalition’s ticket, the Star can report. Former Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya has lifted the lid on the simmering unease with county chiefs who are a no-show in the opposition rallies, calling on voters to deal with the county chiefs. The ODM deputy party leader said it is the height of insubordination for governors elected under the opposition coalition to give the rallies a wide berth, even when they are the hosts. Out of the eight Azimio-controlled counties that has hosted anti-government rallies since January, at least five host governors have skipped his barazas. They are Wavinya Ndeti (Machakos), Paul Otuoma (Busia), George Natembeya (Trans Nzoia), Amos Nyaribo (Nyamira) and Wilber Otichilo(Vihiga). Oparanya, in what confirms Azimio’s concerns with the snubs, told supporters during the weekend rallies to deal with leaders undermining the coalition in 2027. “We don’t want those who care for their stomachs. They need to be shown the door at the right time because we want leaders with a firm position politically. I was a lawmaker for 10 years, I also became a governor for another 10 years and I delivered without going to State House, ” Oparanya said in Kakamega on Saturday. “As coalition leaders, we have been to their counties but they are nowhere to seen because they have gone to State House to look for development. Mr governor you understand that you have a county budget, what the hell are going to State House to search for?” he posed. The sentiments come on the backdrop of an ongoing tussle between the Orange party and its eight MPs, who visited State House and held talks with President William Ruto on what they termed as “seeking development.” The lawmakers are Kisumu Senator Tom Ojienda, MPs Felix Odiwuor (Lang'ata), Mark Nyamita (Uriri), Caroli Omondi (Suba South), Gideon Ochanda (Bondo), Elisha Odhiambo (Gem), Walter Owino (Awendo) and Paul Abuor (Rongo). The Star on Monday established that their case now lies with the party’s disciplinary committee after it was established they have a case to answer. However, ODM chairman John Mbadi, whose docket is responsible for all disciplinary issues in the party, said the party is still reviewing the responses and will communicate their next course of action. “The party will communicate the next course of action to take, the party is reviewing the response,” Mbadi said on phone. But another party source told the Star the cases were relayed to the dreaded disciplinary committee after their response to show cause letters was found to be unsatisfactory. The committee chaired by university don Ben Sihanya was on Monday scheduling hearing dates for the eight lawmakers who defied party position and visited Ruto at State House. Other members of the committee include Florence Omosa (secretary), Seth Kakusye, Mumbi Ng'aru and Ramadhan Abubakar. ODM has maintained it does not recognise President Ruto and his Kenya Kwanza administration. The Orange party has also warned members against flirtation and cohabitation with Ruto’s government, which they maintained is "illegitimate." According to the opposition party, any meeting with the President by its members must be sanctioned by the party. 