EOS Data Analytics (EOSDA), a global provider of AI-powered satellite imagery analytics, has partnered with Agrvision to assist in the agricultural transformation of Eastern Africa. It seeks to help Agrvision develop a precise agriculture business model as well as create sustainable food security programs for Eastern Africa. AgrIvision is a Kenyan startup that aims to provide cost-effective agri-tech solutions to the farming and forestry markets by impacting the transformation and food production approach. It performs gap analysis and helps develop a step-by-step digitalization roadmap for customers’ agribusiness sustainability strategies. Agrvision’s COO and co-founder Oscar Mwai said that the strategic collaboration enables them to help the farming sector in the Middle East and East Africa. He added that they could enhance their food security programs to reach more sustainable outcomes. “Climate change, food insecurity, and lack of accurate data and analytics negatively affect these sectors. We are thrilled about this partnership,” Mwai said. Agrvision intends to use EOSDA Crop Monitoring, an online satellite-based precision agriculture platform for field monitoring. Agrvision will utilize the platform to provide consultancy to regional governments, farming cooperatives, input suppliers, and food producers. EOS data Analytics will in turn supplement its platform with high-resolution imagery features, allowing Agrvision daily access to processed satellite images of the fields they monitor. This partnership allows Agrvision to make remote sensing and farming technologies more accessible and practical. This will help in the delivery of more accurate and insightful data to local farmers and agribusinesses. EOS Data Analytics strategic partnerships lead Brijesh Thoppil said that with Agrvision, the firm will be able to further deliver the value proposition of its solutions. These include crop classification and yield prediction in Kenya and neighbouring countries. “We are delighted to have Agrvision among our strategic partners. We are going to open up new opportunities for their customers in Eastern Africa so that they can benefit from our tech developments,” Thoppil said. The agricultural sector contributes 33 per cent to the GDP of the East African economy. It is, however, now more vulnerable to climate change. Together with poor farming practices, low-quality inputs, and lack of access to knowledge, it postulates a critical demand for reliable solutions ensuring sustainable food production for the region's growing population.