Samburu elders have decried increased insecurity in the region after three people including a chief were killed on Saturday morning. Speaking to Citizen TV, an elder wondered why the government was not acting with urgency to resolve the insecurity issue. He said the disarmament order has failed to restore sanity in the region. The elder said that despite the warnings issued by President William Ruto and Interior CS Kithure Kindiki, gunmen have continued killing residents at will, including administrative and security officers. "Sasa ni nini unangonja? Mpaka lini tutaona mmeweza kufanya kitendo kile mlisema? Mambo ya operesheni haianzi na tunauawa wiki mzima sasa," he said. (What are you waiting for? When are we going to see you do what you said you would do? The operation hasn't started and we are being killed, for a week now). "Watu wetu hawana silaha kwa upande hii na tunachinjwa kama mbuzi, mpaka askari yako (Our people do not have weapons and we are being slaughtered like goats, including your officers)." Another elder noted that Ruto had promised to end the issue of banditry and wondered who between the President and the bandits "atajua hajui". He pleaded with Ruto to act on the issue saying, "Jaribu vizuri sana ufanye kazi leo (Try your best and act)." On Friday evening and Saturday morning, three people, including area chief, were shot dead in lkek -Sabuki area after gunmen raided a village in Samburu. Police and witnesses said the bandits raided four villages Friday evening in the same county and managed to steal an unknown number of livestock. An unknown number of security personnel and bandits were injured in a gun battle that ensued. Witnesses said the injured included three officers-two KDF soldiers and a GSU officer- who are nursing serious gunshot injuries after a fierce encounter with bandits in Pura, Samburu West. The injured were airlifted to Nairobi. The villages attacked include Lesilampa, Lekirishati, Lempoko and Lengoseg where cows were stolen and one shot dead in the crossfire. The attacks came even as CS Kindiki visited the region to oversee an ongoing operation to get rid of illegal firearms in the hands of civilians.