Siaya county commissioner Jim Njoka has issued stern warning against individuals and institutions derailing government projects. Njoka said the government will not tolerate those deliberately delaying the projects by failing to vacate construction sites. He spoke during the inspection of the Sh3.8 billion Lower Nzoia Irrigation project, which cuts across Siaya and Busia counties, covering Ugunja, Alego-Usonga and Budalang'i subcounties. National Irrigation Authority chairman Joshua Toro, Lower Nzoia Irrigation project manager Stephen Mutinda and deputy general manager-operations Joel Tanui toured the project on Friday. The county commissioner directed those who have been compensated to give the way for the project which is slated for completion on September 3. The project was awarded to Sinohydro Corporation Company. The World Bank and KfW Development Bank-funded project will benefit more than 12,500 farmers from Siaya and Busia. The multi-billion project will see more than 10,914 acres of land put under irrigation upon completion. The authority said of the farmers, 5, 640 are in Siaya with 6,744 from Busia. In Siaya, 4, 723 acres will be irrigated with 6,191 acres in Busia. Njoka said the government has effectively addressed land compensation and told the contractor to complete the project within the stipulated timeline. The project was started in 2017 and was expected to be completed in 2021 but was extended to September 3. This is after the contractor cited difficulty in accessing the land as the main cause of the delays. He said the Kenya Power Company which had 23 poles on the wayleave has committed to remove them. "The KPC have assured us that  they will immediately remove the poles to give way for the project," Njoka said. The commissioner said he was satisfied with the progress of the project so far after the contractor committed to complete the project within the stipulated time. He said they are monitoring the contractor and supervising the project to ensure it is delivered as required. “As the chairman has said, we are working as a team to deliver the project. We will effectively address challenges that might derail the project,” the county commissioner said. "We have so far tackled the issues of land compensation exhaustively, save for one or two cases that are still pending but I can confirm that they will be sorted out.” The contractor, he said, has no reason why he should not complete the project on time. “My office has been very vital in resolving all the issues,” he said. Njoka said that the project will be a game changer to the people of Siaya county towards food security. “We expect the number of targeted farmers to redouble. It is going to be a game changer in Siaya where we have a lot of poverty because farmers will engage in income generating activity,” the administrator said. Farmers, he said, will be growing crops such as rice, tomatoes and vegetables, hence the project will be of great benefit to the people of Siaya. “It will contribute to food security and also put money in the pocket of Siaya residents as well as create employment to the youth, women and men,” Njoka said. He appealed to Siaya residents to embrace farming as a way of earning a living and making sure they benefit from the project. “Particularly the youths should not expect white collar jobs. They should go into farming to increase their earning and feed their families,” Njoka said. Toro praised Njoka for supporting the agency and contractor to allow smooth construction works after successfully resolving the land compensation issues. He said the contractor has committed to complete the remaining works before the timeline. “I am satisfied with the ongoing construction works at the site,” Toro said. (edited by Amol Awuor)