A campaign to rejuvenate the Nairobi River has started in earnest with various stakeholders joining the government in the clean-up and tree-planting exercise. Starehe Sub-County Deputy County Commissioner (DCC) John Kisang while leading the exercise on Thursday put on notice all those polluting the river that their days are now numbered. “We are sending a stern warning to all those polluting the Nairobi River that we are going to take legal action if they do not stop,” Kisang warned. The tree planting, he noted, will be complemented with the cleanup of the river adding that the major challenge has been dumping of waste into the river by people who do it at night. He said this is in line with the President’s efforts to achieve 15 billion trees. “As part of Starehe Sub-County, we have identified the banks of Nairobi River as one of the places where we will plant trees and take care of them to ensure their survival so that in 10 years there will be a beautiful environment for all to enjoy,” he stated. The DCC highlighted that some people wanted to grab the riparian land behind Kamukunji police station and put it to other commercial use but as a government, they stood firm and protected it. “We are going to open up the areas along the river five meters on each side all the way up to Michuki Park which will go a long way in ensuring that the Nairobi River is rejuvenated to its former glory,” said Kisang. According to Kisang, they have identified other tree planting sites like school compounds, dispensaries and other health facilities, National police band land and other government institutions where they can plant trees and they will continue planting more trees to ensure that Nairobi has the number of trees that is required to reach 30 percent of tree cover. He said that they will use any space that is available including road reserves. “We are working with Lynns foundation, a local NGO whom we will give this land to establish seedbeds then they will supply tree seedlings to Nairobi and the surrounding counties,” said the DCC. He explained that as Starehe this is their second month since they started planting trees and so far, they have planted more than 2,000 trees and they are being watered by the youth and women groups. Lynns Foundation Executive Director Wanjiku Mutero said that as an organization they have so far planted over 1.3 million trees which are being taken care of. Mutero said that in Nairobi they are working with 17 Community-Based Organizations (CBOs) from each of the 17 Sub-Counties in Nairobi so they are able to cover the whole county. “We are going to establish seedbeds along Nairobi river which will be used to provide seedlings for the Nairobi river regeneration exercise,” said Mutero.