Licensed practitioners who leave their pharmacies under the care of unqualified personnel risk having their licenses revoked. This is after joint a routine crackdown by the Pharmacy and Poisons Board and the National Police Service revealed that practitioners who are duly licensed by regulators to practice are instead leaving their businesses to unqualified personnel. On Friday, the board conducted a crackdown on illegal pharmacy outlets in Lower Eastern and Central regions. Thirty people were arrested and prosecuted while 70 boxes of assorted Health Products and Technologies were seized. The crackdown targets illegal pharmacies in Meru, Embu, Tharaka Nithi, Isiolo, Kirinyaga and Murang’a counties. “The board noted that there are licensed practitioners who leave their practice under the care of unqualified personnel. The affected practitioners are being investigated for prosecution and revocation of such licenses,” Julius Kaluai said. Kaluai is the Head, Inspectorate and Enforcement at PPB. According to the Head, of Inspectorate and Enforcement at PPB Julius Kaluai, the aim of the operation is to investigate, prosecute and report on illegal pharmaceutical outlets in the region. Also targeted are wholesale pharmaceutical outlets and absentee superintendents. A superintendent is the professional in charge of a pharmacy who is licensed by the PPB and must be at the facility all the time. Their absence puts the lives of those purchasing drugs from the outlets at risk due to a lack of professional input. They ensure prescription drugs are not dispensed without a prescription, for example. Kaluai has called on the public to ensure they purchase drugs only from registered outlets adding that chemists bearing no names on display or without signage are a key indicator of illegal pharmaceutical premises. “The public is further advised to verify the registration details of pharmacy practitioners at the community pharmacies, hospital pharmacies as well as any other drug dispensing facilities.” The public has further been urged to report any suspected practitioners and outlets to the PPB through their online reporting platform on the website for action to be taken. Dispensing drugs by unqualified personnel is partly to blame for rising drug resistance to a number of diseases, including tuberculosis, malaria and HIV. In December, PPB put four counties on the spot for employing unqualified pharmacists and pharmaceutical technologists in their health facilities. This emerged after a random verification audit by the Pharmacy and Poisons Board exposed eight unqualified staff; one pharmacist and seven pharmaceutical technologists working in public hospitals in four counties. The four include Meru, Isiolo, Marsabit and Samburu. The audit by the PPB was conducted between October and November following complaints that there could be unqualified persons working as pharmacists and pharmaceutical technologists in some county facilities.