Muthaiga pro Greg Snow and his Mumias counterpart Dismas Indiza will lead the 8- man national team to the forthcoming Magical Kenya Open slated for 9-12 March. This follows the conclusion of the 2022/23 Safari Tour which Snow emerged the Order of Merit winner with a cumulative total of 236.8 points. The event which is part of the prestigious DP World Tour (European Tour) will be held at the Par 72 Muthaiga Golf Club course featuring eight Kenyan pros and two regional qualifiers. Visitor Mapwanya of Zimbabwe, who emerged second in the Order of Merit with a cumulative total of 234.5points and Ronald Rugumayo of Uganda, are the two regional pros qualified for the event. Notable absentee amongst the regional players is Zimbabwean Robinson Chinhoi, who in fifth overall place was the third-placed foreign player and as such failed to make a slot to the iconic event. Railways pro Samuel Njoroge, who is also the winner of the Karen leg of Safari Tour, has also made it to the Kenyan squad alongside Thika man Simon Ngige, Mutahi Kibugu, Great Rift’s Jastas Madoya, Daniel Nduva and Mike Kisia. Kenya Open Golf general manager Vincent Wangombe, said: “The quality of play is getting better and better with every season of the Safari Tour. There is always the facet of cutthroat competition and our local players are upping their game as a result of competition from their foreigners counterparts.” “Now they will be able to play and make any corrections to their technical aspects.” Wang’ombe also lauded Zimbabwean Mapwanya who has enhanced his reputation as one of Zimbabwe’s most promising professional golfers after claiming his maiden Safari Tour title in Kenya on Wednesday. Mapwanya beat the Kenyan duo of Jastas Madoya, Greg Snow and Mutahi Kibugu by one shot at Muthaiga Golf Club course in Nairobi. The Chapman Golf Club-based Mapwanya, who missed out on last week’s Karen event in a play-off, fired a final round three under-par 68 to finish with a tournament total of three under par 281. The victory saw Mapwanya clinch the Sh300,000 cash prize and a place in next month’s the Magical Kenya Open, to be held at the same venue.