A student who scored 377 marks in the KCPE exam was admitted to Kakamega School, causing a stir when he paid his fees  with a hen. Bleshy Mushila was temporarily blocked from entering the school by security guards at the gate but the principal Julius Mambili intervened and allowed him in with his parents. He was later admitted to Form 1 and he wants to be an engineer. Mushila was at Kangemi Primary School in Nairobi. He said that his parents were peasant farmers unable to raise the fees and do the shopping, as they have no stable income.  Mushila said that he was ready to learn in any school as long as he found sponsors but his dream was to study at Kakamega School. “I have come with my former primary school uniform because my parents cannot even afford to pay for uniform,” he said. His father Tom Mikabwa said  he had nothing and decided to pick the only thing he could lay my hands on and that was the hen we have here. He said that he was a driver but lost his job during the Covid-19 pandemic in 2019 and not found another one. He said that he currently works as a labourer on construction sites to sustain his family. The principal said that the boy came into the school with one hen meant to represent school fees. “We found that interesting but that is a reflection of what is happening in the society. Many parents cannot pay fees. We did a background check and found that he comes from a very humble background and deserves to be assisted because he looks ready to engage in academic discourse,” he said He said that the school had resolved to admit him but in the meantime called on well-wishers to go out of their way to support the boy realise his dreams of becoming an engineer. He said  the school has the capacity to assist to some extent "but we cannot do everything." He said that other students have arrived at the school empty handed while some have been promised help by well-wishers. Also arriving at the same school empty handed was Francis Alphayo who scored 388 marks. Alphayo arrived at the school at 9.30am after trekking from Malava subcounty as he did not have fare. “My parents died long ago and I live alone with my grandmother  who cannot help me. I decided to come and seen if the school can listen to me and admit me although I don’t know how I will pay fees,” he said. He said that he was ready to learn in any school as long as he is supported to realise his dream of becoming an engineer. (Edited by V. Graham)