Butali Warriors must learn better game management at the ongoing African Club Championship at the Dashmesh Hockey Stadium, says captain Constant Wakhura. Wakhura was not satisfied with the millers' performance despite a 2-1 win over Western Jaguars in their opening encounter on Monday. Butali had a dream start as Moses Ademba scored in the first minute of the encounter. Calvins Kanu doubled the lead with a neat finish in the 36th minute. However, Butali took the gas off the pedal in the last quarter as Derrick Wakwabubi scored a consolation for Jaguars in the 58th minute. Wakhura said: "It was a perfect start and bagging maximum points elates us. It was a tough match and we ran out of steam in the last quarter. We need to keep the ball and maintain possession against sides that run a lot." "We are itching to reach the finals but the ultimate goal is to win the coveted trophy." His counterpart at Jaguars, Ivan Ludiali, said they learnt valuable lessons as they seek to use the annual tournament as part of their preparations for the new season. "We are back to the drawing board and we have to take the defeat on the chin. We are a young team with an average age of 22 with most players featuring at this stage for the first time," said Ludiali. The ACC returns to Kenya after seven years. Elsewhere, Samuel Oungo's 47th minute strike was all that Kenya Police needed to silence Hippo from Zimbabwe. Sunday Orinya scored four times as Nigeria Police Machine ripped apart Tanzania's Moshi Khalsa 9-0. Augustine Awasa  grabbed a brace while Fowobaje Ojo, Ezekiel Ayodeji and Emmanuel Sunday scored a goal each. Egypt's Sharkia won 3-1 against  Ghana Revenue Authority courtesy of goals from Hossam Ghobran and Ahmed Elganani scored for the North Africans. Luke Koffi scored for the Ghanaians. In the women's category, Lakers drew 1-1 with Blazers with respective goals from Eusyla Cherotich (13th minute) and Joan Anjao (30th minute). Lakers' coach Austin Tuju said: "Defender Ashley Akinyi got injured and that affected our game plan. The draw is an eye-opener. We are optimistic of better performances in our upcoming fixtures."