Residents of Marsabit county will now access quality healthcare services after the county department of health received both pharmaceutical and non-pharmaceutical supplies worth Sh46 million from the Kenya Medical Supplies Agency. The supplies have been directly dispatched to various hospitals and dispensaries, making it a boost in service delivery. In a press briefing at Marsabit Referral hospital, the county executive committee member for Health Grace Galmo acknowledged the supply. She maintained that Governor Ali Mohamud-led administration is putting the health of his people at the forefront. "The health of our people is a top priority for us. The county Governor is investing more resources in the department to ensure people get quality health services whenever they visit our health facilities across the county," she said " This consignment of pharmaceutical and non-pharmaceutical products from KEMSA will cater to the health needs of our facilities for the next four months," she added Galmo stated that dispensaries within the county are expected to receive their shares of drugs from sub-county hospitals from Tuesday. She assured that the county government under the leadership of Governor Mohamud Ali will continue to enhance service delivery and ensure a timely supply of drugs to all health facilities at the sub-county level. The health executive said measures have been put in place to deter any theft of government drugs saying legal action will be instituted against health officials found diverting the drugs. Galmo encouraged the citizens to be vigilant and report any mischief for prompt action urging them to utilize services offered in the health facilities and ensure they get a timely diagnosis of any illness before getting medication. "We are pleased that in line with Governor Mohamud's commitment to the health of his people, we began to move in the right direction of ensuring we have medicines in our facilities. We have received supplies from KEMSA for the referral hospital and our sub-county facilities," she said. While expressing her gratitude to the governor, she says the supplies would be a great relief to patients who have been greatly affected by the lack of drugs in the hospital. The CECM Health informed that another batch of pharmaceutical and non-pharmaceutical is expected in the course of the week and will be dispatched to all the health facilities across the county. She further said that the renal unit has been stocked with the necessary drugs. The CECM asked residents to go for dialysis adding that the residents are now able to receive laboratory services including basic tests as the laboratory section has also been fully stocked. Galmo asked the hospital's management to streamline the stock management to ensure the drugs reach the right people. She urged residents to sleep under mosquito nets as new cases of malaria have been found. She underscored the importance of proper utilization of mosquito nets to boost the fight against malaria which remains the greatest killer disease in the county. Galmo stressed the need for residents to support efforts put in place by the county government and partners in the fight against malaria. The Marsabit Referral hospital CEO Kussu Abduba assured the members of the public that the medicine will be available at the hospital from Tuesday and reassured them that there will be a timely and uninterrupted supply of drugs at the hospital.