The 2021 World Under-20 800m champion Emmanuel Wanyonyi has pledged to light up the track on his way to the podium at the upcoming World Championships in Budapest Hungary. In an exclusive interview, the fast-rising track sensation told the Star that he has done his job well enough for the challenge and will aim for a medal at the annual global spectacle. “I’ve been training with my eyes set squarely on the World Championships. I’m eager to demonstrate my dominance on this grand platform,” Wanyonyi explained. “My immediate goal is to better my personal best, but I wouldn’t mind trying for the record as well.” The middle-distance sensation was among the Kenyan quartet that claimed the mixed relay title at the World Athletics Cross Country Championships in Bathurst, Australia alongside Mirriam Cherop, Daniel Munguti and Brenda Chebet. He believes their amazing performance at the competition has increased his ambition to achieve global greatness and add another medal to his cabinet. “Our performance in Bathurst was quite encouraging heading into the World Championships. It was a huge morale booster and my confidence in repeating this performance in Budapest has skyrocketed.” “I plan to finish on the podium, in Hungary. I want to be considered one of the world’s best 800m runners. This is doable if I put in enough time in training,” Wanyonyi explained. Wanyonyi believes his lack of senior-level experience cost him a podium finish at the most recent World Championships in Oregon, but he learned some valuable lessons that he will apply in Budapest. “It was lack of experience that cost me the victory. Nonetheless, it was my first World Championships and I’m glad I came away with a lot of valuable lessons,” Wanyonyi remarked, who finished fourth in 1:44.54. “Making it to the finals of such a prestigious competition in what was my debut was quite an achievement. Considering the tight competition in the field, I was glad and comfortable with fourth place.” He has promised to follow in the footsteps of his countryman and namesake, Emmanuel Korir, who won the two-lap race at the Hayward Field in Oregon. “I was thrilled for him and the fact that he returned the 800m world title to Kenya. I knew my time would come and I believe Budapest provides me with a chance to make amends for my failures in Oregon last year,” he said. Wanyonyi rose to global stardom after storming to the gold medal at the 2021 World Under-20 Championships at the Moi Stadium in Kasarani, where he set a championship record in 1:45.01. On November 1, the World Athletics nominated the speedster for the 2022 Male Emerging Star award following his outstanding performances throughout the year.