The Kenya Kwanza administration, which prayed its way to victory in the August 2022 election, on Tuesday returned to God for a solution to the woes the country is facing. A prayer here, a sermon there, and a proclamation of God’s place in government, President William Ruto led the prayers, summing it with a call for blessings upon the nation. The Kenya Kwanza team said the prayers would help them actualise "the plan" and bring rain for farmers who have received subsidised fertiliser. Ruto and his team said they were banking on prayers to end the economic woes accosting Kenyans, and that the country would be free of debt. The team further sought God’s intervention on the high cost of living and dealing with the resistance mounted by the Raila Odinga-led opposition. “I am glad the church has taken its place in the governance of the country. I am happy the church is now at the centre of the politics of Kenya,” Ruto said. “Coming for prayers gives me joy. I am assured that the church understands its place in the country. Today I will sleep early. I will wake up late tomorrow. I will sleep with shoes.” The new administration took over five months ago and faces a barrage of concerns from Kenyans unsure it would end the pain of expensive basic commodities fuelled by high prices of fuel. The President said that he was confident the bottom-up agenda would succeed after the spiritual intervention, starting with returns in agriculture. “We have put down all plans for fertiliser, maize seeds so that we prepare for we know God will give us rain. Like in the words of Zacharia, it is not by might, power but the spirit of God,” he said. The head of state added, “It is neither by the power of the deep state nor by the might of the system but the power of God that this nation is going to move from this level to the next.” President Ruto said he had witnessed the place of prayers in unlocking finances for the country both locally and internationally. “God has chosen the course of our nation. I speak from a position of knowledge. The doors in the international community were closed for our nation but now the financial system in the world has opened the doors for Kenya,” he said. The President said that they can now approach any international financial system and ask for financial assistance on behalf of Kenya and “the doors are open for us”. “Locally our doors were limited but today the doors of the financial system are open for the government and we are getting more than we need.” He cited the recent ruling of the courts to the effect of staging an increase in NSSF deductions from workers and their employers as part of the breakthrough. “We decided to pass the law in 2014 to build a strong foundation for savings in our country. To know God has opened doors for Kenya, the courts made a final determination and today we have opened the door to savings,” he said. “If you were in any doubt as to whether the doors of Kenya have been opened, I can give you that confirmation that our door has been opened.” In an apparent swipe at the Uhuru Kenyatta administration, Ruto said his team would not leave the country with a debt burden, and that the prayers would see the country lend to others. “The word of God says that a good man leaves an inheritance for his children. He doesn’t leave debts for children…we had accumulated too much reckless debts,” he said. “We will pay our debt and we will make this country debt-free because we need to leave an inheritance for our children’s children.” The President also indicated he wouldn’t relent in the pursuit of tax evaders, saying “the wealth of sinners is stored up for the righteous.” On the opposition protests, Ruto said the Azimio team “would be scattered seven ways”, citing the biblical story of the wall of Jericho. Ruto was joined by his deputy Rigathi Gachagua, First Lady Rachel Ruto, and DP’s spouse Dorcas Rigathi, clergymen and faithful. Rigathi said the prayers could not have come at a better time than now when 5.3 million Kenyans are staring at starvation. “The situation doesn’t look any better…prayers to intercede for rain are more than welcome. We face many challenges of our young people. Let’s pay to the liquor sellers so that God can touch their hearts,” he said. He urged the church to continue praying for the country even as the government “continues to mobilise development partners to get us more food to the people.” Rachel urged farmers to prepare their farms “for the rains are coming”. “Let us pray for the plan so that the Lord can help them fulfill the promises they have made to Kenyans,” she said.