Mathare United stand-in coach, Samuel Koko, was over the moon after guiding his side to their second consecutive win, barely a fortnight after he took over the reins. The Slum Boys shook off a torrid start to the season to pull off a 2-1 upset on the more fancied Kariobangi Sharks at Moi Stadium, Kasarani Annex. Daniel ‘Van Persie’ Otieno was the toast of the day, stepping off the bench to score the winning goal as Mathare United grabbed Slum derby bragging rights. Otieno headed home the winner with six minutes left after Mathew Kibiwott had cancelled out Donald Ange’s first half penalty. “The performance is very encouraging especially considering how we began the season slowly. The outcome will definitely boost the morale of the players heading into our subsequent fixtures,” Koko said. “I’m happy we fought as a unit throughout the match. We could have registered a higher scoreline if we were keen enough to capitalise on all our goalscoring opportunities.” “There are areas we shall be working on when we resume training and I believe we’ll be in a position to register better results if we make the necessary adjustments,” Koko said. Kariobangi Sharks head coach William Muluya attributed their loss to laxity and fatigue. “It is quite possible we underrated our opponents based on their past performances and we paid a heavy price at full time,” Muluya said. “We need to give in our best performance in every match despite the current status of the team in the standings. There are certain changes we will need to make but all in all I must say the team is getting better by the day.” The victory sees Mathare scrape off the relegation zone for the first time this season to 16th with 10 points from 13 matches. Ange had put the Slum Boys ahead in the 28th minute from the penalty spot after he was sent tumbling in the area. Mathew Kibiwott, however, grabbed the equaliser for the Sharkmen two minutes into the second half before Otieno’s stunner sealed maximum points for the Slum Boys. Elsewhere, Bidco United thrashed Vihiga Bullets 3-0 at Thika Stadium in the midweek fixture. Henry Juma broke the deadlock for the hosts in the 38th minute before doubling the advantage with another splendid effort in the 54th. Ezekiel Okare then pounced on a glorious chance to make it three for Bidco in stoppage time.