Daniel Ndambuki, alias Churchill has said his appointment to chair the newly established Creatives Technical Committee is divine. Taking to his Twitter account, Churchill expressed his gratitude to President William Ruto and Youth Affairs, Sports and Arts Cabinet Secretary Ababu Namwamba for the appointment. "I would like to express my gratitude to President William Ruto and CS Ababu Namwamba for the kind public responsibility appointment to chair the much-needed Creative Technical Committee in the Talanta Hela initiative and Council. This is divine. The future is here," he tweeted Churchill will chair the committee for three years. Other members of the committee include Akinyi Odongo, Jimmi Gathu, Esther ‘Akothee’ Akoth, Kizito Makhande, Rosemary Wahu Kagwi, Awadhi Salim Awadhi, Azziad Nyasenya, Douglas Kipkirui, and Langat Susan Ekasiba. The Creatives Technical Committee shall propose reliable systems for the seamless and accountable collection and distribution of royalties to all creatives and implementation frameworks for the National Creatives Economy Plan. They will also manage the National Creatives Awards (Kenyan Grammys) as well as deploy the digital space in talent search, identification, nurturing and exposure. It will also establish a robust framework to monetize the creatives sector to expand employment opportunities and support Kenya’s economic growth and advice on the Masterplan for upgrading arts facilities and infrastructure countrywide to international standards. The Churchill-led committee will also develop a framework to anchor and promote Kenya as a top film-making destination and consider, and propose legislative and policy measures for the growth of the Creative Economy. "The Council and its Technical Committees shall undertake any other task as may from time to time be assigned by the Cabinet Secretary aimed at the renaissance of Kenyan sports and the Creative Economy," reads the gazette notice. In the performance of its mandate, the Council, as the need arises, may co-opt not more than two other members to advise or help on any area that the Council may deem necessary.