Kakamega Governor Fernandez Barasa has asked members of the county assembly to take mortgages and car loan facilities which he says have already been approved by his government. The governor was speaking on Tuesday during the official opening of the Second Session of the Third County Assembly after a two-month recess. Before his address to the House, MCAs were heard chanting songs demanding for mortgage facilities. “Concerning the welfare of the honourable members, I wish to encourage all of you to continue applying for your car loans and mortgage facilities that have a repayment plan which lapses before the end of this first term," the governor said. He said the allocation of car loans for MCAs worth Sh182 million has already been approved in the current financial year. "We have also started the issuance of mortgages to the Members of the County Assembly," Barasa said. The governor further reiterated that his government intends to enhance the first mortgage allocation of Sh168 million in the second supplementary to cater for all the MCAs. Barasa requested the MCAs to support proposals brought to the floor of the House by the Executive including his promise of ensuring allocation of Sh20 million Ward Flagship Projects across the county to facilitate delivery of roads infrastructure, water and electricity to the people of Kakamega county. “I wish to reiterate my appeal to honourable members of improving on our performance in service delivery to the people of Kakamega county by streamlining financial management and internal controls, at both arms of Government," he stated. The county boss also urged the acting Clerk of the county assembly, Esther Ariko, to ensure that financial obligations such as accrued pending are addressed expeditiously. "I'm aware that the county assembly has accrued pending bills and the efforts to address this challenge have not yielded desirable results that's why I’m asking the clerk to act speedily,” he said. Barasa stated that it was desirable that by the end of his first term in office, the county will be among the top performers in prudent financial management in the country. "I still emphasise that the performance of our county assembly on financial management was position 46 out of 47 in the country. "I wish to assure members that the recent audit on the expenditure by the county assembly in the last two financial years will be presented to the County Assembly Service Board in its wholeness for necessary implementation,” Governor Barasa asserted.