Billy  'The Kid' Odhiambo has resumed training with the squad ahead of the Los Angeles and Vancouver tournaments later this month. Odhiambo missed out on the Hamilton and Sydney Sevens tournaments,  owing to a concussion but resumed training this week with the rest of the squad at Peponi School. The Mwamba inside centre suffered the concussion during the Cape Town tournament in December with concussion protocols dictating that he sits out for a month to recover before resuming training after getting clearance from a doctor. Team manager, Eric Ogweno, said the veteran looks fit going by the four training sessions they have had at Peponi school this week. “It's great to have him back in the team. He brings experience and the ability to break the defensive line as well as being a good defender,” added Ogweno. Ogweno revealed that Tony Omondi could be a doubt for the twin tournaments, owing to a hamstring strain. He, however, said his status will be known by early next week. "Tony picked a small strain Sydney and we are monitoring to see how he will respond to treatment before next week,” noted Ogweno Shujaa are in a tough pool against Fiji, Australia, and Japan for the Los Angeles Sevens slated for February 25-26. With Shujaa yet to qualify for the Main Cup quarterfinals this season,  Ogweno believes there is light at the end of the tunnel. "The unpredictable nature of Sevens gives us hope we can compete with the teams in the pool and get a good result," he added. Shujaa currently lie 12th on the log with 21 points and Ogweno believes a good run in the American leg of the tournament can see the team move into the top 10. “ From the recent tournament, there is some slight improvement and if we can attain maximum points in Los Angeles and Vancouver, then we can get out of the relegation zone,” observed Ogweno. Kenya will open their campaign against Australia before facing Fiji and concluding with Japan. The team will be named on Wednesday next week with the squad set to depart for Los Angeles on February 18. Los Angeles pools Pool A: New Zealand, Samoa, USA, China; Pool B:  South Africa, Ireland, Uruguay, Canada; Pool C: Fiji, Australia, Kenya Japan;  Pool D: France Great Britain, Argentina and Spain.