KCB RFC assistant coach Mark Mshilla believes there is room for improvement ahead of two Kenya Cup blockbuster fixtures against Menengai Oilers and champions Kabras in the next fortnight. The bankers put in a dominant display whey they hammered Catholic Monks 59-16 on Saturday but the former player believes the upcoming tough tests will define their season. "We got a good win today (Saturday) but our focus has already shifted to our fixture against Oilers next weekend in Nakuru. They beat us in the semis last season and that means this will be a tough test. We have to be well prepared for the encounter," said Mshilla. The unbeaten bankers are top of the log with 40 points but Mshilla believes they are entering a critical phase in the season as they encounter fellow title contenders. “We have done well with the squad, which is a blend of youth and experience. We must be in peak condition in the next couple of weeks ahead of these two big clashes plus the semifinal and, hopefully, the final," said Mshilla. The bankers were dealt a blow before kickoff against the varsity side with Kenya Simbas' prop Patrick Ouko ruled out due to a knee injury but Mshilla says they will soldier on. "We have big squad. We wish Ouko the very best in recovery," he said. Against the Monks, skipper Curtis Lilako, Andrew Amonde and Peter Waitere scored a brace each while Mike Kimwele, Thomas Okidia and Elphas Adunga scored once each. Fullback Darwin Mukidza kicked over seven conversions in a match that the bankers led 28-9 at the interval. Kabras stay second on the log with 39 points following a 42-7 demolition of Mwamba at the Impala Club. Menengai Oilers are still third despite a 25-21 loss to Strathmore  Leos. Quins are fourth after a hard fought 22-21 victory over Nakuru at the latter's backyard. Blak Bald stay fifth on the log on 23 points after beating Mean Machine 35-27. Masinde Muliro University earned their first win of the season after beating Homeboyz 21-10 but remain bottom of the log with seven points.