Join approved Technical institutions to acquire more skills and papers, untrained Artisans have been urged. Kisii National Polytechnic Principal Daniel Nyariki said that in doing so, the artisans will be able to secure employment or qualify to be awarded contracts from government institutions. Nyariki said the learners are trained under Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL), assessed and given a Certificate if they pass. “After the training, the learners will be awarded Certificates which will help them get employment in the county or national government or get contracts to boost their lives,” Nyariki said in his office. The Principal noted the Polytechnic, jointly with industry players and Technical Vocational Educational and Training ( TVET) Institutions, was developing a curriculum to train learners to suit the market needs. He said the institution has liaised with industrialists to know the needs of players in industries to enable educationists to develop a curriculum to suit the needs of the industries. “It is better to know the demand for technicians and the market trend so that once the learners graduate they can secure jobs or be self-employed” he added. He noted that research has shown the demand for people with technical skills is high in industries compared to graduates with general knowledge. Nyariki further noted some students who qualify to join universities opt to undertake technical Diploma Courses, acquire skills and join the job market earlier than their colleagues at universities. “Three thousand students who passed the KCSE examination and qualified to join universities joined the polytechnic to undertake various Diploma Courses. Some have advanced to higher levels and others have been employed” the Principal said. Similarly, Nyariki appealed to retirees to undertake simpler courses like painting, hairdressing and shaving to keep them busy, add up to their pensions and boost their lives. He said retirees with skills earn more than those who rely on their monthly pensions, adding technical skills are important to hasten the country’s industrial and technological development.