Google has issued a call for applications for the inaugural Google for Startups Accelerator: Women Founders Africa Programme. The programme aims to empower women founders on the continent by providing resources and opportunities for them to scale their tech startups and address African problems. The 12-week programme will commence in March 2023 and will include one boot camp per month to be held via a hybrid style of online and in-person sessions. Selected participants will receive access to Google's products, mentoring from industry experts, resources, tools and technology. They will also receive networking opportunities and connections with investors to support the growth of their startups. Google head of startup ecosystem in Africa Folarin Aiyegbusi said that African female founders face challenges in their entrepreneurial pursuits, including limited access to funding. She also said that despite these challenges, women make up a significant portion of African entrepreneurs with 58 per cent of businesses in Africa being owned by women. “Elevating the participation and leadership of women in the entrepreneurship ecosystem is crucial for promoting gender equality and driving economic growth in Africa,”Aiyegbusi said. She also added that investing in women-led startups is a key step towards achieving this goal, and Google's commitment to these goals is reflected in the launch of the Women Founders Africa Programme. “We are excited about the open call for applications for our 3-month accelerator programme, specifically tailored to address the unique challenges faced by women founders in Africa,” Aiyegbusi said. “We believe that investing in women founders in Africa is critical for economic empowerment that will enable the creation of jobs for the growing African youth population.” Eligible applicants must have a working product or service, a viable business model and a working team. The application process includes a written application and an interview with the program team. Selected participants will be mentored by industry experts who will provide guidance and support throughout the program. They will be instrumental in helping startups achieve their full potential and create a positive impact on their communities. Programme mentor Akua Nyame-Mensah said that the focus of the mentorship will be invaluable as participants will benefit and grow from the exchange of ideas and experiences. "It's an honour to be a mentor in the inaugural Google for Startups Accelerator Programme for Women Founders," Nyame-Mensah said. "As part of supporting the next generation of leaders in Africa, this program offers women an opportunity to grow their networks and the accountability to achieve their professional goals.” The Google for Startups Accelerator Women Founders Africa Programme is an extension of the Google for Startups Accelerator Africa programme established in 2017, It is a reflection of Google's dedication to supporting startups and addressing the unique challenges faced by women entrepreneurs in Africa. Women founders who are building tech startups in Africa, or for Africa, can apply through the program website at g.co/acceleratorafrica before the February 20 deadline.