Youthful creatives and students have been urged to capitalise on the available opportunities at the revamped Goethe-Institut Nairobi. This involves engaging in cultural exchange, educational programs, German language teaching and programs. This will bolster the growth of the cultural and creative sector and positively impact livelihoods. Speaking during the reopening of the Goethe-Institut Nairobi, Kenya Cultural Centre CEO Michael Pundo said that there are numerous opportunities and avenues that have been created. This is by technological advancement and unprecedented partnerships between private and public sector players across the entire cultural and creative sector value chain. He said that at the heart of this are initiatives to increase access to German identity, culture and values. This is through educational and cultural collaborations that if adequately harnessed, can unlock the massive potential of the industry. “We acknowledge the multiple pain points that the sector has faced for decades," Pundo said. "However, we also do recognise the huge potential the sector has in becoming a key economic driver, export earner and a massive job creator." "I am delighted that many stakeholders are coming together to collectively address the critical needs in the sector thus laying a solid foundation for realising this vision of transforming the entire sector." The colorful reopening event was also graced by German deputy ambassador Thomas Wimmer. He lauded Goethe-Institut for continually implementing innovative and wide-ranging programs. He also said that the institute has grown over the years to become a multifaceted, melting pot that celebrates the diversity of both the German and Kenyan heritage. This provides a platform for different creatives to express themselves, learn German and interact with Germany right in the heart of Nairobi. “I want to sincerely commend the Goethe-Institut for being a forerunner of the cordial and deeper cultural and educational relations that Kenya and German have been enjoying for the last six decades," Wimmer said. "It is such projects that have contributed towards intensifying and enriching the bilateral relations between our two countries." Goethe-Institut director Lilli Kobler said that the institution has always been a place to meet and exchange, learn and debate. "Our desire is that our new spaces cater to this in a modern, customer friendly and innovative way," she said.