After a year in the cold due to a ban imposed by Fifa in February last year, Harambee Stars are back in action. The Football Kenya Federation announced on Monday that Stars will dare the Swallows twice in Nairobi on March 25 and 28. It is worth noting that the local governing body has begun laying the groundwork to boost Kenya's chances of qualifying for major international showpieces. Notably, FKF has already appointed a coach to guide the team toward the set objectives. The federation announced that it had extended the contract of Turkish gaffer Engin Firat who is expected to continue sharpening the team's talons in readiness for the big stage. In the coming days, Firat will reveal the rest of the technical bench. As we celebrate Kenya's return to the international stage, we must avoid the gaffes that landed us in hot water with the world football governing body, Fifa, if we do not want to face another ban in the future. The country must now take the bold step of removing all jokers from Kenyan football administrative structures and replacing them with football-savvy individuals. Suffice it to say, anyone tasked with managing sports in the country should have a perfect track record of integrity. We are all aware that Kenya incurred Fifa's wrath after the government took action against individuals who allegedly embezzled funds intended for the development of local football. In the future, there will be an increasing need to vet all those aspiring to hold office at local federations in order to ensure accountability in the use of funds provided to develop sports. The local football scene has seen some positive energy in recent weeks, and the news that we will soon be flocking to stadiums to cheer on our national team is the icing on the cake. Recently, the country witnessed one of the most well-attended Mashemeji derbies, with fans from both Gor Mahia and AFC Leopards painting the stands in their traditional green, blue, and white colours. Nobody expected such a large crowd after years of disappointment in Kenyan football. The country has faced difficult financial times, with gate receipts amounting to nothing for local clubs. Harambee Stars matches have always drawn the largest crowds over the years, especially when the team is performing at its best. To ensure that the team's performance meets expectations, player selection must be transparent. There have been unconfirmed reports in the past that some individuals have paid bribes to get a chance to play for the national team. Such incidents, if true, are completely uncalled for, and those found culpable must be removed from the system immediately. Equally important is the need to disburse salaries and allowances on time so that the players are not distracted from what they should be focusing on. Relentless and unequivocal government support is also key to the team's success. Unwavering and unequivocal government support is also critical to the team's success. In that vein, it is heartening to learn that Cabinet Secretary for Sports Ababu Namwamba recently announced the formation of a team to spearhead the Talanta Hela Initiative. Headed by Carol Radull, a media personality, the Sports Technical Committees will propose legislative and policy measures to promote the growth of sports. Part of the committee's task is to support programs and efforts aimed at qualifying the Harambee Stars for the 2030 FIFA World Cup. By running the annual bottom-up football tournament for grassroots teams from all 47 counties, Radull and her team will identify and develop Kenya's best sporting talent. The action demonstrates the government's determination to steer Kenyan football to greater heights. 