Kenya Rugby Union will conduct their eagerly anticipated polls March 24 at the RFUEA ground. Following the landmark ruling by the Sports Dispute Tribunal (SDT) last week, which nullified the elections of directors from last September, the affiliates will now elect officials in six positions with the chairman, vice-chairman, secretary, treasurer and directors (six slots). The team will serve for a four-year term. The Tribunal said the polls should be held within 60 days from the day of the ruling. In a notice sent out by acting secretary Ray Olendo, the Annual General Meeting will consider the board report for 2022, receive and consider the adoption of the audited financial reports as well as appointment auditors. Olendo added that the affiliates must have paid their annual subscription, insurance and competition fees. Those seeking elective posts, according to Olendo's statement, must have served in the executive committee of an affiliated club, or have served as a coach, referee, administrator or medical practitioner for a period of four years. The candidates should possess a certificate of good conduct, clearance from Ethics and Anti Corruption Commission (EACC), good knowledge of both written and oral English and Swahili and or one coaching,  refereeing or club administration laws of the game and rugby-ready certificate. The SDT nullified last year's elections after failing to meet the threshold. In a ruling on Tuesday last, SDT indicated that the election of Joshua Aroni as the treasurer, Ian Mugambi as secretary general and Oscar Mango as a director is null and void. SDT also reprimanded Sports Registrar Rose Wasike for interfering with the elections, adding that the elections fell short on the notice. The ruling stated that there should also be one representative from Kenya Cup, one representative from the Championship, one representative from women rugby and the chief executive officer of KRU to be secretary but with no voting rights. While members eligible to vote shall follow the criteria set out in the KRU Constitution, SDT noted that KRU Constitution is inconsistent with the Constitution of Kenya 2020, Sports Act 2013 and Registrar of Sports’ regulations.