The tribunal probing the conduct of suspended Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission commissioner Irene Masit will resume its sitting on Monday. The tribunal’s joint secretary had postponed the resumption of oral submissions from February 9 to 20 at 10 am at the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development in Nairobi. Hate speech case A hate speech case against Korogocho MCA Absalom Onyango will today be mentioned before the court for pre-trial. The MCA  had been charged with incitement to violence where he was accused that on January 25, he uttered inciting words that implied causing anarchy in the country. Ruto to visit Kisii Gusii leaders have intensified preparations ahead of President William Ruto's tour of the region next week. Somalia to join EAC Somalia is inching closer to being admitted to join EAC. All eyes will be on EAC Ministers as they meet in Bujumbura, Burundi for the 43rd ordinary session. Wiper leaders to hold barazas Wiper leaders will hold meetings as they throw weight behind the planned people's barazas. They've claimed while their victory was stolen, the people's court was yet to give its final verdict. Wetang'ula, Oigara honored Kibabii University to confer National Assembly Speaker Moses Wetang’ula and Chief Executive Officer of Stanbic Bank Joshua Oigara honorary degree of Doctor of Humane Letters during its 7th graduation on March 3, 2023. Security operation 10 more firearms were Sunday recovered in two separate parts in Samburu County in an ongoing security operation in the region. Police said the weapons were surrendered by locals who heed a plea from the government to give them out in an amnesty programme. High cost of living protest Justice for Africa will hold a unique peaceful match at Mathare,  Austin’ Ground next to Kiboro Primary school along Juja Road to CBD to deposit our Petition to the Office of the Deputy President and the Ministry of Education on the high cost of living. Obado graft case The Sh2 billion corruption case against former Migori Governor Okoth Obado, his family members and associates is coming up for mention. The anti-corruption court is expected to set new hearing dates after a magistrate who was initially hearing the matter was promoted to become a judge.