The Taita Taveta County Assembly has completed the vetting of six nominees for the position of Board member of the newly created Taita Taveta Investment and Development Corporation Board. The members on Thursday appeared before a joint committee on Trade, Cooperatives Development and Public Investments. If approved, the board will be headed by businessman William Lay and deputized by Josephine Mbela. Other members of the board are Catherine Wakesho, Vald Mwakima, Johnson Mwawai and Voi-based advocate Micar Mwazighe. The members were appointed by Governor Andrew Mwadime in December last year to spearhead economic development in the region. He said the board was constituted pursuant to the provision of section 6 (1) of the Taita Taveta County Investment & Development Corporation Act 2022. The board will further handle and coordinate county investment and resource mobilization plans. “The idea of having an administration that is willing and able to collaborate with investors is inspired to ensure that we have enough jobs, and the county will have enough revenue,” Mwadime said while constituting the board. He said more investment will be directed to empower the youth through strategic partnerships to receive employment opportunities and also start their enterprises. Mwadime said he will operate an open-door policy to ensure that the county increases partnerships with private investors and development partners in order to unlock the economic potential. He targets to increase investment in mining, trade, tourism and agriculture sectors thus revamping the region’s economy. The county is strategically located as an ideal regional investment corridor due to the Mombasa/Nairobi highway, Voi / Holili highway and its proximity to the port of Mombasa. While appearing before the county assembly for vetting, Lay who is the founder of the Taita Taveta Investment Forum said he will use his entrepreneurship prowess to increase investment in key departments. He said the board will be guided by the provisions of the Taita Taveta County Investment and Development Corporation Bill 2022 and The Taita Taveta County Spatial Bill, 2021 to bring more investors and boost county revenue.