Microsoft company has launched a new AI-driven search engine for Microsoft Bing and its Edge browser. The engine is now available to consumers on a preview basis at Bing.com Microsoft chief executive officer Satya Nadella on Tuesday, while speaking to the media and technology stakeholders, officiated the premier launch of the AI-integrated engine that aims to generate better search results, provide and answer increased incomplete answers, offer a new chat experience, and generate content to help one get started. He spoke of Microsoft’s desire to take the design of AI products as a first-class construct and build that into their products. “We take all of that as first-class things which we want to reduce, not just to principles but to engineering practice such that we can build AI that’s more aligned with human values, more aligned with what our preferences are both individually and as a society,” he said. He outlined how the new and improved innovation would help to restructure the largest software class available which is Search. “It is a new day in search, it’s a new paradigm for search, and rapid innovation is going to come. In fact, a race starts today in terms of what you can expect and we’re going to move fast, and for us every day we want to bring out new things and most importantly we want to have a lot of fun innovating again in search,” he said. In an interview with the Wall Street Journal, Nadella expressed optimism that the new features would provide choices for consumers and generate increased competition with other brands. “Bing with AI is going to completely change what people can expect from search. We are grounded in the fact that Google completely dominates this space, I feel like a new race is starting with a completely new platform technology, I’m excited for the users to have a choice finally and a real competitive race out there,” he said. Microsoft Consumer Chief Marketing Officer Yusuf Mehdi who spoke later on introduced it as the next generation of search and browsing infused with AI and assembled as an integrated experience. “We are going to reimagine the search engine, the web browser and new chat experiences into something we think of as your co-pilot for the web. Co-pilot is a critical word because we believe in the empowering nature of AI in which you the individual are in charge,” he said. The introduction of the new and improved search engine comes two weeks after Microsoft and ChatGPT’s parent company OpenAI announced an extension of their partnership that seeks to drive forward AI breakthroughs and guarantee that the benefits are shared with the rest of the world. The launch also comes a day after Google introduced ‘BARD’ which is an AI chatbot that is set to compete directly with ChatGPT.