Gor Mahia's lethal striker, Benson Omalla, gave their ardent fans a special Valentine's gift on Tuesday, scoring a hat-trick to propel the record champions past a hapless Wazito side at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. The 4-0 thrashing of the Muhoroni-based 'Moneybags' propelled K'Ogalo to the top of the log, where they now have 33 points, two more than their nearest rivals, Nzoia Sugar. Gor Mahia head coach, Jonathan McKinistry lauded his charges for exhibiting great character in the match. The huge win has boosted their chances of laying claim to a 20th top-flight title as they frantically seek to end their two-year trophyless streak. "We played well this afternoon. All the departments functioned properly and we pinned our opponents in their half for the better part of the game," McKinstry said. "We are not going to relent on our title ambitions. We are now in a strategic position to maintain our stay at the summit of the table and seal the season. The former Uganda Cranes and Amavubi Warriors tactician has asked his charges to keep their eyes firmly trained on the title, warning them to be wary of the slightest distraction that could foil their plans. "I'm urging the boys not to relax, neither should they let our good run get to their heads. It's time to step on the gas pedal and keep the momentum going," McKinstry said. As McKinistry celebrated his feat, Wazito's Ibrahim Ateng said they lost to a better side. "We did our best only that there are a few mistakes we will be working on in training to increase our chances of performing better in subsequent games," he said. "The season is still at its tender stages with many matches still left on the card. We live to fight another day," he added. Omalla's goal rampage brought his tally to 15, putting him ahead of the pack in the race for the Golden Boot this season. The mercurial striker opened the floodgates with a screamer barely eight minutes into play before capping off his splendid performance in Wazito's attacking third with further forages in the 34th and 43rd minutes. Omalla hailed his teammates for pushing him to the heights he has attained thus far. "I'm pleased with my performance in this game, but I couldn't have done much without the invaluable assistance of my teammates. They made it happen, and I owe them a great deal "Omalla stated ."My goal this season has always been to score as many goals as possible and help my club win the championship. I'm glad we set the stage for a title run with a perfect first half of the season."