Prime Cabinet Secretary Musalia Mudavadi has dismissed claims that the Kenya Kwanza government was discriminatory in rolling out development. Mudavadi said the President William Ruto-led administration acknowledges that it was voted in by Kenyans and is committed to serving them equally. "Nataka ile porojo ya watu kusema kwamba serikali ya Ruto ina ubaguzi ama serikali hii itakuwa na ubaguzi wawache porojo kwa sababu tumechaguliwa na wakenya wote na tunahudumia wakenya wote," he said. (I want those saying Ruto's government is discriminating against others to stop because we have been chosen by Kenyans and we will serve all Kenyans). Mudavadi spoke during the launch of the Nairobi River Commission at Korogocho. In reference to the equality in serving, the PCS further said the President and his cabinet had brought in foreign investors to the area, which did not vote in a Kenya Kwanza MP, with an aim to better the lives of the residents. Korogocho is in Ruaraka Constituency, whose MP is Tom Kajwang of the ODM party. "This is to emphasize that we will collaborate with and serve all Kenyans because we respect our nation," Mudavadi said. On Tuesday, Azimio leader Raila Odinga accused Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua of promoting discrimination following his utterances that the government was going to prioritise development for its supporters. "Every Kenyan pays the tax but when it comes to sharing and jobs, they become discriminatory and this is not right," he said. On Sunday, during an address in Kericho, Gachagua said they will prioritise those who backed their presidential bid when it comes to sharing opportunities in government. The DP said his role at State House is to ensure regions that backed them get development before those that did not. "You invested in this company owned by William Ruto and Rigathi Gachagua you must harvest. You invested and your time to harvest is now... Even they (the opposition) will harvest, but they have to wait for you to finish harvesting." Speaking on Wednesday at the Nairobi River Commission launch, Gachagua went back on Sunday's statement, saying they were going to serve all Kenyans. "Ruto has told us, and we have agreed with his word because he is our leader, that this Kenya is ours. Those who voted for him and those who did not, they are Kenyans and since he is the President, he will continue serving," Gachagua said. "We want to reiterate that development will be rolled out all over the Republic of Kenya because every Kenyan is paying their taxes." Gachagua however said Ruto was going to choose public servants who acknowledged the Bottom Agenda. "This is because you must get leaders who understand your agenda so that there can be progress," he added.