The conversation on employee wellness has been ongoing, gaining momentum as a result of the disruptions of the COVID-19 pandemic. As organisations and Governments put policies in place to safeguard employees in this very disruptive age, it is imperative for HR professionals to share a national perspective from their point of view. It has become clear that employee wellness is not just a personal issue but a national issue that affects our economy and society as a whole. As a nation, we must prioritise the health and well-being of our workforce to ensure their success and the success of our organisations and country. We need a comprehensive and integrated approach that addresses the physical, mental, and emotional needs of our employees. This includes policies and programs that promote healthy lifestyles, mental health support, and work-life integration. We must also provide access to affordable quality healthcare, encourage physical activity, and healthy eating habits, and promote employee engagement and social connection. It is the responsibility of the Government, businesses, and society to work together to create a supportive environment for employee wellness. We need to recognise the value of investing in employee wellness and prioritise it as a critical part of our national agenda. By doing so, we can create a healthier and more prosperous society. Kenya has recognised the importance of employee wellness and has developed several plans to promote it. These plans include the development of a Workplace Wellness Policy - Kenya has developed a national policy on workplace wellness, which aims to promote healthy lifestyles, prevent diseases, and improve employee well-being in the workplace. The Country has also launched a mental health action plan, which aims to improve access to mental health services, reduce the stigma associated with mental illness, and promote mental health in the workplace. The National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) now provides affordable and quality healthcare to Kenyan citizens, including employees. It is mandatory for all formal sector employees to contribute to the NHIF, which covers their healthcare costs. Despite the challenges, employers are facing in the current economic situation all employers should ensure that NHIF deductions are remitted in order to help secure their employees’ wellness. Many organisations have implemented employee wellness programs, which include activities such as health screenings, fitness classes, and stress management sessions. These programs aim to improve employee health and well-being and increase employee productivity. Employee wellness is an increasingly important issue, and harnessing the power of a fit workforce is a key way to promote wellness and improve employee health and productivity. There are several ways through which employee wellness can be reinvented to harness the power of a fit workforce ranging from; Encouraging physical activity by providing access to fitness facilities or organizing activities such as fitness classes, walking meetings, or step challenges. This can help improve employee fitness levels, reduce stress, and increase energy levels. Also, utilise technology to support employee wellness, such as fitness tracking apps, wellness portals, and telemedicine. This can make it easier for employees to track their fitness and access healthcare resources. By reinventing employee wellness to harness the power of a fit workforce, organisations can improve employee health and productivity, reduce healthcare costs, and increase employee job satisfaction and retention. By creating a culture of wellness and promoting healthy behaviours, companies can help their employees lead healthier and more fulfilling lives. While we have made great strides toward prioritising employee wellness and creating a supportive environment for employee well-being, there is a need to put in place the following policies to institutionalise employee wellness at an affordable rate for productivity: National workplace wellness policy it is important to put in place a national policy that promotes employee wellness in the workplace and sets minimum standards for employee wellness programs. The policy can include guidelines for affordable and accessible healthcare, mental health support, healthy lifestyles, and stress management. In an effort to encourage organisations to entrench employee wellness, Governments can provide tax incentives to companies that implement workplace wellness programs. This would open the door for Public-private partnerships – where the Government can partner with the private sector to promote employee wellness. This can involve providing funding or technical assistance to help organisations develop and implement wellness programs. Affordable healthcare The Government can work to improve access to affordable healthcare, including health insurance, to ensure that employees can access medical care and treatment finally Education and awareness campaigns to promote employee wellness and reduce the stigma around mental illness. This can include providing information about healthy lifestyles, mental health support, and workplace stress management. By institutionalizing employee wellness policies and programs, Kenya and Africa can promote a healthier and more productive workforce. By making wellness affordable and accessible, companies can reduce healthcare costs, increase productivity, and improve employee job satisfaction and retention. As HR professionals, it is our duty to continue playing a leading role in creating awareness and enhancing the capacity of HR professionals as they enable organizations to take care of their people and the nation at large. CHRP Odero Philip Dalmas is the National Chairman Institute of Human Resource Management. He spoke during the wellness summit in Mombasa.