The Kenya Forest Service team will look to improve on reception and defence following their 3-1 loss to Kenya Army in the second leg of the Kenya Volleyball Federation men’s league match at the Nyayo Stadium on Friday. KFS lost the first set 25-15 but drew back level, claiming the second with a score of 25-19. However, a lapse in concentration saw the Wachira Gatuiria-coached side lose the consecutive sets 25-14 and 25-18 to begin their 2022-23 season on the wrong foot. Gatuiria said: "The loss was expected considering we have not played any friendly match prior to today’s game. This is a new look team with the potential to become even better with thorough training”. “Despite this being our first match, there were lots of positives and we can take heart from the loss. The reception was our main undoing while both back and front court defence needs to be worked on. The players are psyched up and eager to make amends after failing to make the playoffs last season. We want to finish among the top four in order to achieve our target”. His opposite number William Wahome lauded his charges for the faultless display after capitalising on their opponent's weaknesses. Wahome added that mental toughness in his players was crucial for the win. “We knew we were facing a quality opposition and that called for a bulletproof mentality. We lost the second set because KFS made changes and became tactically better. In the third and last set, we capitalised on their poor blocks and penetrated most of the balls through the middle." “We can't afford to rest on our laurels but the win is a morale booster to the team. Minimising errors in our game remains a priority”. In another match, Equity Bank annihilated Prisons Western in straight sets. Captain Wilson was unstoppable in their rout. Coached by veteran Sammy Kirongo, the bankers scalped their opponents in sets of 25-15,25-18 and 25-22 to win their first match after losing the season opener 3-1 to Kenya Defence Forces in Kapsabet in December 2022. “What a better way to start the year? he quipped. We would like to build momentum going forward while at the same time working on our services.”