Kenya Ports Authority Setter Elijah Bosire believes reception was their major undoing following their 3-1 loss to Equity Bank in the second leg of the Kenya Volleyball Federation (KVF) men’s League match at Nyayo Stadium on Sunday. Equity won the opening two sets 25-23 and 25-14 to make it 2-0. KPA halved the deficit by claiming the third set 25-23 but peerless Equity prevailed in the decider 25-20. KPA, who were runners-up last season, forfeited the match against Prisons Central on Friday. The Coastal side found the going tough against a well-drilled Sammy Kirongo Equity-coached side after an insipid performance. Bosire tipped KPA to bounce back stronger in the third leg. “This was not the kind of result we expected but the defeat will act as an eye-opener. All is not lost since the season is only getting started. Equity were strong in service and that was an area we were weak at. We will have to burn the midnight oil to polish reception which was a real letdown.” The loss of senior players Enock Mogeni, Peter Kamara and Dennis Omolo to professional stints abroad seems to have left KPA depleted without an adequate replacement. On his part, Kirongo commended his charges for getting the better of their rivals after losing 3-2 last season and eventually missing out on a playoff slot. The veteran gaffer was quick to point out that his team functioned like a well-oiled machine and there is more to come if the win against KPA is any barometer. Kirongo said: "We really played well and I am pleased with the boys'  performance. The reception and blocks worked well but our service still needs improvement. This needs to be done in our next training sessions." “We can't underestimate the importance of this victory considering KPA are a quality team with good and mature players. I wouldn’t say it was revenge having lost to them last season but it feels good beating your rival. The boys are hungry and want to make it to the playoffs after missing out last season  and therefore, there is no room for complacency.” Equity beat Western Prisons and Vihiga in straight sets on Friday and Saturday respectively. Elsewhere, Administration Police Kenya came from behind to edge out Kenya Forest Service 3-2 in a five-set thriller. KFS managed the first set 25-18 before AP drew back to level terms in a 25-20 second set win. AP also prevailed in the third set 25-18, Forest won the fourth 25-16 but AP had the last laugh, winning the decider 17-15. In another match Prisons Coast beat Nyanza Prisons in straight sets of 25-17,25-15 and 25-19. 