Red roses, chocolates, love letters and spending quality time with loved ones remain popular gift ideas for Valentine's Day. Valentine's Day is an annual celebration of love, friendship and admiration. Being the first month of the year dedicated to lovers, make February 14 an extraordinary day with beautiful memories. Since Valentine's falls on a Tuesday, here are the best romantic ideas for showing love and appreciation in your relationship. 1. An ideal romantic getaway There are great romantic paradises locally available. From Kenya’s South Coast Beach to the extreme ends of western Kenya. A romantic getaway or a cosy night on a weekend just before the big day, are among the ways to spend quality time together. Some people prefer new and thrilling adventures. While for others, it’s all about relaxing on a beach somewhere. If you are planning not to travel, offer a surprise dinner date. Crown it with a pocket-friendly gift. 2. Write love letters to each other Yes, letter writing is still alive! Exchange letters over a candlelit dinner. Try this. It slaps differently. Your letter should express gratitude to have ‘babe’ by your side. You must express romantic feelings. Let them know how you feel the way they hold you, the way they look at you, and the way they always put others before themselves. 3. Try a new experience together Do you enjoy a dance lesson or playing games? If I were you, I would play games. Guess the movie, truth and lie, the face doesn't lie, board games and truth or dare, are some of the favourite games to play with your best half. You can also play more romantic games, such as leaving love notes in a love box for each other. Think of new ways to show your partner how much you care. 4. Show appreciation through thoughtful gestures What about a straightforward yet heartfelt way to start the day and express your love and gratitude? Express your kind deeds, like having breakfast in bed or a massage. I'll choose breakfast in bed, it makes me feel sincerer. For this, prepare your shopping list. Make pancakes in the shape of a heart. Men do this better than women. Fresh strawberries, blueberries and melons should be chopped into bite-sized pieces and combined in a fruit salad. Serve as a side dish. For a tasty and nutritious treat, layer yogurt. Serve fresh fruit juice in a tall glass. For a salty and savoury option, cook some crispy bacon in the oven or on the stovetop. 5. Visit a special place that holds significance in your relationship Make a list of interesting places to stop along the way. Bring snacks, water, a cooler and a first-aid kit. Take turns asking questions and sharing stories and memories. Take breaks and visit interesting landmarks, small towns or scenic spots along the way. This you can do with children. 6. Take time to communicate and listen to each other Communication is key to any healthy relationship. A relationship should give you everything that makes life meaningful, joyful and amazing. By taking the time to communicate and listen to each other, couples can strengthen their bond and deepen their connection on Valentine's Day and beyond. In-person and verbal communication can often have a far greater emotional value than anything transmitted electronically. Verbal communication is intimate and direct. As you spend quality time together, away from distractions like phones and work, pay attention to what your partner is saying and ask questions to show you're engaged in the conversation. Be honest about your thoughts, feelings and experiences. Encourage your partner to do the same. Have a love language. Use the best type of communication that works for you. Most women love verbal affirmation. Ngala consults in brand management