Newly elected Rift Valley Region Secondary Schools Sports Association (RVRSSSA) chairman Patrick Kipkenda has set the ball rolling ahead of the National Secondary Schools Sports Association (NSSSA) that will be held in Eldoret, Uasin Gishu County. Kipkenda, who was elected unopposed with his team, said preparations for the national championships have begun in earnest to ensure a successful competition. The Kapsoya Secondary School principal, who is also the Uasin Gishu County chairman, said: “For us to succeed in hosting such a big event, we must start our preparations early. We don’t want the last-minute rush to salvage the situation." First, he said, they will stage the regional championships to test their capacity for the national games. “This is one of the biggest regions in the country, consisting of 14 counties, which has so much talent. Being elected as the chairman means a lot and I have to achieve the goal and mandate that I was given by people,” said Kipkenda. Kipkenda was finally confirmed as the regional chairman after serving in an acting capacity following the promotion of the then chairman Kipchumba Maiyo as the acting national chairman to replace Peter Orero, resigned when he was elected as a Member of Parliament for Kibera Constituency. “We have good talents in the Rift Valley region and our job is to sharpen  their skills to meet the required standards. I was elected unopposed, both at the County level (Uasin Gishu) and the region meaning that teachers in sports have trust in me,” said Kipkenda. During the Friday elections, Kipkenda was elected unopposed, same as his first and second vice chairmen Philip Ipati and Sammy Githungu, representing Turkana and Nakuru counties respectively. Reuben Kirwa kept his secretary's post to be assisted by Kericho’s Joseph Mutai. The treasurer’s post will be served by Baringo’s Jackson Rotich and will be assisted by Mark Sang of Bomet while organising secretary post went to Peter Mulambula from Trans Nzoia, who will be deputised by Jacob Barusei from Narok.. Rift Valley Secondary Schools Sports Association officials Chairman: Patrick Kipkenda — Uasin Gishu 1st Vice Chairperson: Philip Ipat  — Turkana 2nd Vice Chairperson: Sammy Githungu — Nakuru Treasurer: Jackson Rotich — Baringo Vice Treasurer: Mark Sang — Bomet Secretary: Reuben Kirwa   — Elgeyo Marakwet Asst Secretary: Joseph Mutai  — Kericho Organising Secretary: Peter Mulambula — Trans Nzoia Organising Secretary: Barusei Jacob — Narok Members West Pokot : Charles Merikori Nandi: Daniel Maru Kajiado: James Ntiamasi Samburu: Absalom Kibe Patrick Weru Technical officials Rugby — Simon kiarie Handball — Clara Chepkoech Athletics — Esther kaptingei /Japhet chelule (start list) Basketball — Diana Mayaka Racquets — Benard Jomo/Charity wahome Hockey — Julius Koech Netball — Diana Cheruiyot Swimming  — David Seurei