A section of lawmakers from the coffee-growing areas has raised their concerns over the online trading system at the Nairobi coffee exchange. According to the MPs, the 'private' ownership of the auction without the government's representation renders its operations opaque. Githunguri MP Gathoni Wamuchomba who led the caucus on a fact-finding mission at the auction in Nairobi claimed the digital trading was not offering the required solutions on transparency in the sale of coffee as anticipated. "Farmers have a right to know the actual prices their coffee fetch at every sale closed at the auction but it is now dominated by buyers that is why farmers have no voice over pay since they are not involved," she said. Wamuchomba also demanded to know who funded the establishment of the system. She wondered why coffee was being sold at higher prices at the auction yet farmers fetch a meagre earning. Wamuchomba, the group's chairperson argued that as a result middlemen have infiltrated the chain with the intent of fleecing farmers their hard-earned pay. While addressing the press, the legislators also questioned the delay in allowing more players to participate in the auction. "At the National Assembly, we have unanimously agreed that we are going to annul the Munya regulations that were limiting a lot of players to access the auction...So those are things that we have confirmed that for sure nothing has changed," she stated. Gathanga MP Edward Muriu on his part called for the establishment of a central bureau of quality. This, he said, will help address the issue of grading and pricing while guaranteeing transparency in the sale of the produce. "At the auction, the farmer has no control over the pay, it is the buyer who comes and dictates the price. When the coffee has been sold why does it have to go through third-party hands before it gets to the farmer," he posed. The MPs also noted that they will be seeking to establish if the local buyers pay the taxes to the government considering that exporters are exempted from remitting it.