Ugenya Member of Parliament David Ochieng has scoffed at Azimio's planned countrywide rallies saying they will further hurt the economy. Speaking at Sega Polytechnic in Siaya County on Thursday, the Kenya Kwanza-leaning lawmaker said it was time for leaders to show patriotism and not fuel tension. Ochieng who is the MDG party leader noted that any protests will only serve to hurt the ailing economy more. "As it is, the truth of the matter is that the country is in a very difficult economic state," he said. "The most important asset as a people today is patriotism. Leaders should show patriotism by supporting their country at all times. This is time to support the country," he said. "Let's summon the best of our instincts to remain united," he said. The MP who spoke during the award of bursaries to needy students from his constituency said it doesn't matter whether a leader supports the sitting president or not. "It is time to show love for the country as patriots. It doesn't matter whether you love the president or not," he said. He told the Azimio leadership that has been pushing for demonstrations to kick out president William Ruto's administration that they will have nothing to lead if the country is destroyed. "Even those who are pushing that narrative will have nothing to lead if we go that route," he said. Ochieng whose party teamed up with Azimio through OKA decamped from the alliance after the August 9 polls. He now backs the UDA government. On Thursday, the legislator asked the Azimio leaders from Nyanza and the western region to embrace dialogue. "Let's focus on how to build the country's economy. Instead of street protest, let's retreat to boardroom negotiations and dialogue together. He also asked the media put leaders to account. Azimio leaders Raila Odinga, former vice president Kalonzo Musyoka and former minister Martha Karua have since held three rallies in Nairobi where described the Ruto administration as illegitimate. They asked Kenyans not to recognise the president and his associates insisting that their victory was stolen by UDA. They have organised another rally that will be held in Machakos. For proper and prudent utilisation of resources, Ochieng said MPs will propose that the issue of bursaries and sponsorship be streamlined so that there is no double allocation. "The ministry of education should streamline the issue of scholarship." "We will come up with a mechanism that will ensure there is no double allocation of bursaries," he said He reiterated the importance of education adding that parliament will be at the forefront in supporting initiatives that ensure every child's access to education. "Children who do well must be supported to actualize their dreams. We had issues with CDF but We're happy the money is now coming. We will ensure we clear the arrears for those in secondary and tertiary levels of education," he said. He, however, noted that MPs were worried about the implementation of the competence Based curriculum( CBC) and appealed to the education CS Ezekiel Machogu to Issue proper and consistent instructions to teachers in junior schools. " It appears the government didn't plan how to implement CBC well and parents and students should not bear the inconvenience caused by failure by the ministry to plan for how to implement the program," he said He said Sh 45 million has been allocated from the Ugenya CDF towards bursaries. On Thursday, 71 students received support which included shopping for items required for form one admission. Those admitted to national schools received full sponsorship from the kitty.