Murang’a County government has started registering over 100,000 residents who will be included in the free NHIF programme. The programme dubbed Kang’ata care has been in operation since the beginning of the year and benefits more than 20,000 households. Those being registered are dependents of the principal cardholders and include children, orphans and parents. The enhanced medical cover provides both inpatient and outpatient services, optical and dental services, and the last expense compensation that sees beneficiaries receive Sh100,000 in case they lose a member of the nuclear family and Sh50,000 in case they lose a parent. The registration is being done in partnership with NHIF officials who have been assisting health workers in all local public health facilities to conduct biometric registration of the eligible dependents. Those being registered are required to appear in public health facilities physically. Governor Irungu Kang’ata who launched the registration exercise at Iruri dispensary in Mathioya said it will ensure only the rightful dependents benefit from the medical cover. “We realized most of the principal cardholders only registered their names and failed to include their spouses, children and parents”. “Spouses will have to produce a marriage certificate or an affidavit that proves they are married,” he added. The County government has allocated Sh170 million for the programme which is meant to ensure poor and vulnerable members of society access quality health care. Some six beneficiaries who have already lost members of their families, he said, have already received the last expense compensation since the programme started in January this year. Patrick Mulei from the Ithanga area lauded the county government for the programme saying his family received funds after his father passed away. Mulei said his father fell ill two years ago and that it has been It had been difficult for the family to take care of his hospital bills. But after being enlisted in the programme, Mulei said his bills were paid and that the last expense compensation helped to prepare for his send-off. Another resident, Jane Muthoni, said their families have been rescued from the cycle of fundraising every time a family member falls ill. “Sometimes you would fall ill and not go to a hospital because you don’t have the money to pay for it. Now I can just walk into one whenever I feel unwell,” she said.