Bondo legislator Gideon Ochanda was on Monday removed as the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) branch secretary. This was done following a delegates' meeting held at the branch office in Koyucho in Bondo town. "Today, members have unanimously agreed to expel the branch secretary and MP Gideon Ochanda and his position taken by East Yimbo ward MCA," Bondo ODM vice chairperson George Mawere said. The branch leadership cited Section 14(5)(a) and (e) of the political parties act, saying that "a member of a particular political party that is dining with a party that is in competition with your own party is deemed to have resigned from a party that he/she belongs to." They want the ODM head office to take immediate action against the MP as per their recommendations. If the Orange House will uphold the branch decision then Ochanda risks losing his parliamentary seat. "When the party feels that they were never consulted then this is the action that we can do. I wholeheartedly take the duty that the people of Bondo have given me today," Otiato said. Bondo ODM branch chairman Oburu Odinga said that the action of  Ochanda had been unbecoming since his visit to State House reportedly in pursuit of development. He said that Ochanda is backstabbing his party, ODM, and its leader Raila Odinga. "When he decides to call the press and started expressing his views by attacking the party leadership and policies, it was clear he was deviating from the party and giving the enemy fodder for fighting us," Oburu said. Oburu stressed that development is in the budget which legislators like Ochanda have a say on in parliament. "There is nothing in State House in terms of development. Development is in the budget and the budget-making process is with us in parliament," Oburu said. He claimed that Ochanda and 7 others had gone for "something else and members of the public can judge what that something else is." Raila hails from Bondo thus, Oburu noted that it was shameful for Ochanda to visit the State House without consulting them. The expulsion of Ochanda comes only two days after Raila said that the new phase of the political struggle required no "traitors" and that only "true soldiers" will continue the fight. Speaking to Tembea Radio, a community station in Siaya, Ochanda said that he had gone to State House to follow up on the development projects that President William Ruto had promised during his tour of Nyanza last month.