The Media Council of Kenya (MCK) on Monday signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Council of Governors (CoG) to enable journalists to tell the devolution stories in all 47 counties. The MCK CEO David Omwoyo said that the MoU seeks to promote knowledge management and information sharing from and within the devolved units. The MOU also seeks to enhance collaborative capacity building of county communications and media staff, improving relations between county governments and journalists and developing training curricula on devolution. “We will endure very best root training, capacity building and providing access to information so that the media tells the story of devolution from a positive perspective.” “Because while it is within their rights to highlight the shortcomings of the government and those in authority, they also have an obligation to show successes and achievements after 10 years of devolution,” Omwoyo said. He said that there are so many stories around the country because a lot happened in the 10 years of devolution therefore they will do their best in capacity building of journalists, knowledge sharing, access to information and also providing them with media relations both at the CoG and different counties. This will help in ensuring that Kenyans in the 47 counties across the country get access to timely relevant information and not just the lamentations and the bad happenings around the counties. “The media plays a crucial role in devolved governance by informing the public about the actions and decisions of elected officials and government bodies at the local level.” “It has progressively become a platform for the citizenry to voice their concerns and opinions on governance issues,” he said. He said that they will engage in further capacity building to make sure that the people in the county are able to gather the information and deposit it in the depository. “If you direct people to a knowledge portal and information centre, it is important that that info is put there so that the media can go there and find it and I hope it will be as vibrant as possible from videos, testimonies, data and all that." He implored county governments to grant journalists access to information because it will address misinformation and unnecessary conflicts that have often led to a strained relationship between the media and devolved units. “I urge county governments to uphold the access to information law by enabling media to obtain the right information to facilitate informed and accurate coverage of matters of public interest,” he said. CoG ICT and Knowledge management committee chair Wisley Rotich said that they will collaborate and work together with the media for the betterment of devolution. “This time round we want objective reporting and as counties, we have pledged that we operationalize our Knowledge center where all the success stories about devolution will be deposited for onward transmission to media houses so that they can be able to report accurately,” he said. He said that they want to ensure that devolution stories are told in a different way and in an inspiring manner that can be able to ensure that devolution is a success story. “During my term as the chair of ICT, I want to ensure that the story that is told is something that will attract investors to the counties and ensure that they are centres of development and investments. I will ensure that we have a good working relationship with the Media Council of Kenya,” he said. The governor said that they have also committed to providing a good environment for journalists to work at the county and to report objectively without bias. "We have agreed that we want to train our communication officers at the counties and at the CoG so as to ensure that they are able to handle and able to present stories very well and report everything that happens in the counties,” he said.