A task force has proposed the expansion and refurbishment of Kodiaga Maximum Prison in Kisumu to enhance service delivery. Led by retired Chief Justice David Maraga, the task force on the improvement of terms and conditions of service for members of the National Police Service and the Kenya Prisons Service, toured the facility at the weekend to assess its state and working conditions of its officers. Maraga said the prison, which was built during the colonial era, was in a deplorable state. He said the task force will recommend its expansion and upgrade to cater to the huge number of inmates. Built to accommodate about 800 inmates, the prison currently has more than 3, 000 inmates, causing a big strain on available facilities. Besides the overstretched facilities for inmates, prison warders lack decent accommodation. Maraga said the task force, which is moving around the country collecting views from members of the public and officers, was deeply concerned by the state of housing for officers and inmates across the country. He attributed the situation to lack of proper funding mechanisms to upgrade houses for the officers. While presenting their views to the team, prison wardens urged the government to review their salaries and allowances to be commensurate with the nature of the work they do. Their work, they said, entailed working late into the night, asking the government to consider paying them allowances. Kassim Ishmael, a prison warden at the facility, said the officers must be considered for enhanced risk allowance among other benefits. “Our risk allowance should be equivalent to that of doctors and nurses. During the Covid-19 pandemic we continuously served the nation without a break. We continue to expose ourselves to tuberculosis and other diseases while handling inmates,” he said. On accommodation, the officers asked the prisons service to construct modern houses for junior officers within the prisons services. This, they said, was necessary because their housing allowances cannot allow them to secure accommodation outside, at market rates like their seniors who earn more. On health cover, the officers asked to be taken back to the National Health and Insurance Fund. Faith Oloo, an officer at Kisumu Women Prison, said the insurance cover should be liberalised so that officers are free to join a scheme of their choice. Maternity leave, she added, should be reviewed from three months to six months to allow female officers who undergo caesarian section ample time to recover before resuming duty. The officers further asked the team to make recommendations on promotions so they are awarded fairly and on merit. Recruitment of cadet officers, they said, should start within the service to ensure that those with the qualifications are given priority.