The Anti-Doping Agency of Kenya (ADAK) has given athletes Stellah Barsosio and Gloria Kite Chebiwott two-year doping suspensions. The development was announced on Monday by ADAK, whose mission is to defend athletes' fundamental rights to take part in a doping-free sport in the nation. Chebiwott, 25, received the suspension after being found guilty of violating the World Athletics Anti-Doping Rules by utilizing an illegal drug called anabolic androgenic steroids (AAS).  Her sample was obtained for analysis in May 2022. “The Tribunal notes that there’s no dispute between the athlete and the applicant that a prohibited substance S1.1. Anabolic Androgenic Steroids (AAS)/Androsterone, Adiols, Pregnanediol11-ketoetiocholanolone, Etiocholanolone (Etio), testosterone, 5a-androstanediol, and 15 epitestosterone were present in the athlete’s body and thus resulting in an AAF,” the ruling read. The penalty for the silver medalist in the 10,000m race at the 2019 Valencia Ibercaja has been backdated to August 12, 2022, and it will remain until August 12, 2024. “Consequently and the discussion on merits of this case, the Tribunal imposes the following consequences: a) The period of ineligibility (non-participation in both local and international events) for the Respondent Athlete shall be for two (2) years from the date of mandatory provisional suspension that is with effect from August 12, 2022,” they ruled. Barsosio, a former winner of the NN Marathon Rotterdam, was disqualified due to the presence of the banned chemical trimetazidine in her sample. “Hormone and Metabolic Modulators/Trimetazidine which is prohibited under S4 of the 2022 WADA prohibited list was found in the respondent’s urine samples. This is a non-specified substance and is prohibited at all times as per the WADA Prohibited List of 2022. "The Respondent will be ineligible (unable to participate in both national and international tournaments) for a period of two years beginning on August 17, 2022, the date of the mandatory temporary suspension, according to her decision. Barsosio, who has five marathon victories to her credit, will have her suspension retroactively applied; it will start on August 17, 2022, and end on August 16, 2024. The development comes exactly a month after World Athletics showered flowery words on Kenya for waging a successful war against substance abuse. As cases of anti-doping infractions involving its athletes went overboard, member federations increased pressure on WA to enforce the rules, and the East African sports powerhouse narrowly avoided being banned.