The Ministry of Health on Saturday opened the Garissa Regional Cancer Centre in an effort to combat the ever-rising cancer burden in the country. This adds to the already existing centres in Nairobi, Meru, Nyeri, Embu, Garissa, Bomet, Machakos, Coast, Kakamega, Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital in Kisumu and Makueni. The opening of the Garissa centre is a game changer in the fight against cancer as it is the first in the Northern Kenya region since independence. The Health CS Susan Wafula has acknowledged that though the minority communities that inhabit the northern region have made immense contributions to the nation through animal husbandry they have historically suffered from a lack of access to specialised care. “Compounded by perennial droughts as a result of climate change, these communities have traditionally continued to bear the brunt of food insecurity, access to clean water among other challenges making access to such healthcare a mirage,” the CS said. Despite the effort by the government, the inequities in access to healthcare services have continued to compound the situation, as a majority of cancer cases are diagnosed late, leading to poor treatment outcomes. For instance, nine in every 10 persons with esophageal cancer will succumb to the disease while a majority of people diagnosed with cancer will succumb to the disease due to late diagnosis. In December, the ministry trained more than 20 healthcare workers on cervical and breast cancer screening in Garissa through support from the Global Fund and provided pap smear kits for screening. This will aid in the early detection of some of the cases before they advance to later stages. “To improve the index of suspicion for cancer among primary health care workers to reduce delays across the health system, we have provided free e-learning material on the MOH Virtual Academy which healthcare workers can access at no cost,” Wafula said. According to the ministry, cancer remains a major public health concern in the country and is the third leading cause of death in Kenya. In 2020, the country reported 42,000 new cancer cases and 27,000 cancer-related deaths. The top five cancers according to the ministry include breast, cervix, prostate, oesophagus and non - hodgkins lymphoma and account for nearly half (48 per cent) of the cancer burden in the country.