Busia County has produced 56 more football coaches, thanks to the concerted efforts of Sports Cabinet Secretary, Ababu Namwamba through the Kenya Academy of Sports (KAS). Among those who graduated in the closing ceremony graced by County Executive Committee Member for Sports, Paul Ekwenye were eight women who are expected to challenge men in the world's most popular sport. It is the highest number of upcoming coaches to be trained at once since 2013, thanks to the efforts of FKF Busia Branch chairman Hillary Musundi that saw his Secretary General, Reuben Olita also become a trained coach. The 10-day workshop held at Hotel Rowcena was sponsored by KAS in collaboration with the Ministry of Sports, Youth and Arts. Others who graduated included football referees and volleyball referees and coaches. Ekwenye called upon referees and coaches to recruit more girls in the field of coaching and refereeing. "Our county database on coaches and referees has improved tremendously. These are the people we will use in any training that is ahead of us for example Kenya Inter-counties Youth Sports Association (KYISA) games which need youth above 18 years and below 23 years. The Kenya Inter-Counties Sports and Cultural Association (KICOSCA) games are also in the pipeline," he said. He added: "We shall have a series of tournaments in the county this year. The Governor's Cup will be held between November and December while in October we shall have Deputy Governor's Volleyball tournament. The Deputy Governor is passionate about sports." The Director KAS, David Okot said Kenya needs a pool of trained sports personnel which is being done in line with the Sports Act 2013 which is keen on identifying sports talent. FKF Busia Branch chairman and Football Instructor, Hillary Musundi said beginning next season, no club will be allowed to feature in local leagues without a Class D license coaching diploma certificate certified by the CAF/FIFA. He urged the CECM to fast-track the passage of the sports bill which had stalled during the last administration, noting that clubs participating in various cadres of leagues are facing financial constraints. Football Kenya Federation NEC Member, Margaret Omondi echoed CECM's sentiments noting that the scarcity of women referees in Busia County is a big challenge, urging the sports department to help address the anomaly. She said ladies’ players from Busia have been enlisted in Under-17, U-19 and U-20 national leagues, regretting that no ladies' team is participating in top tier league.