Rangers made good their pre-weekend threats as they stunned Ulinzi Sharks 32-29 and Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology 33-19 in the Kenya Handball Federation (KHF) league at Nyayo Stadium this weekend. The win over Sharks gives unbeaten champions Nairobi Water Queens a good chance for title defence. Coupled with an earlier 37-28 victory over Amazon, Rangers' exploits saw them leapfrog Sharks and National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB) to second spot with 29 points from 18 matches. Water Queens are tops with 30 points, NCPB 26 and Sharks 24. “Our game plan was to take a keen look at their moves and counter them and it worked. It was a closely-fought first half, when they had a brief advantage,” said Rangers coach Juma Gerald. “We took over the proceedings in the last half where we controlled the game to the last whistle. Credit to the girls as they played according to the script.” Martha Lavenda was unstoppable as she drilled in 13 goals and Naomi Wamalwa tallied nine in that shocker while Euphracia Mukatia and  Dorothy Machuma hit six and five goals respectively for the losers. Rangers men’s side also had a good outing, beating Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology (Jkuat) 31-17 after taking a 16-7 half time lead. Gladys Chilo and Brenda Ariviza each nailed seven goals as champions Nairobi Water Queens thrashed New Hope 51-7 after taking a huge 20-6 half time lead. Rangers dismissed Amazon 37-28 as Valery Akoth, Elizabeth Wambui and Valine Okoth managed seven goals each for the Bungoma-based side. Naomi Muyoka tallied 11 and Lavender shot nine. New Hope fell 38-36 to Nairobi City Council who had eight goals from Sheila Asachi and Gaudenisa Nekesa hit nine. Winnie Cherop led the losers with game high 12 while Doreen Chesihedo seven. In their other match, Rangers suffered a 38-34 at the hands of Thika as Cyrus Ongea scored nine and Andrew Ondoyo seven. The losers had 12 from Kelly Talom and seven from Abil Kemei. Randy Ochieng’s eight goals saw Buccaneers, down 14-6 at the break give General Unit Service (GSU) a huge scare before losing 23-21. Chistopher Mayienda bagged seven for GSU.