Kenya power is set to conduct a conference with more than 300 stakeholders from the energy, finance and transport sectors, as well as development partners in a bid to develop a framework for electric motorisation in the country. The E-mobility Conference is scheduled to take place in Nairobi in February from 7 to 8. The lighting company partnered with German Agency for International Cooperation (GIZ), to develop a consultative framework that will support a coordinated approach toward the implementation of electric motorisation. The forum will advocate for the amalgamation of policies under development by different stakeholders to ensure that they capture all opportunities presented through the entire e-mobility value chain. "The conference will offer an opportunity to map out the entire e-mobility value chain to drive investments and attract the participation of potential stakeholders to increase the uptake of electric vehicles,” said Kenya Power’s Ag. Managing Director Geoffrey Muli. He added, "We are at the centre of electric motorisation and therefore, well positioned to ensure that we provide adequate and reliable electricity supply to spur the growth of this nascent industry.” Muli said the conference comes at a time when electric motorisation is gaining traction globally as electric vehicles have been identified as a sustainable source of transport. Muli estimated there are at least 1,000 electric-powered vehicles currently in Kenya, ranging from two-wheelers, three-wheelers and four-wheelers. He added that demand is expected to accelerate in the coming years, as car manufacturers increasingly roll out electricity-powered vehicles. The power company announced plans to phase out fossil fuel-powered vehicles and motorbikes from its fleet, in favour of electric-powered ones. The Company has set aside Sh 40 million in the current financial year to purchase three electric vehicles and to construct three electric vehicle-charging stations within Nairobi, both for the Company’s use and demonstration purposes.