A man who allegedly assaulted his wife in order to break his father's record has been charged at the Kibera law courts. He allegedly attacked his wife so as to follow the footsteps of his father who had also killed people. Japheth Amisi Anamanda was charged before Kibera senior resident magistrate Renee Kitagwa where he denied the charges. The court heard that the accused person committed the offence on January 14, 2023, in the Kawangware area. He is said to have assaulted Telesinah Ozulu, his wife after uttering: “Naskia Kuua mtu leo babangu aliwahi ua mtu na mimi nimewahi dunga mtoto kisu hadi matumbo ikatoka nje,” she told the wife minutes before he landed on her with kicks and blows. He also assaulted another woman who came as a Good Samaritan to rescue his wife. The court was told that the accused person mercilessly assaulted the wife, and at some point, tried to strangle her. In court, he pleaded guilty to the charges and the magistrate directed that his file be set aside for further directions. Also in Kibera Courts, a  31-year-old man accused of  sexually communicating with a child was charged. Joseph Kahanya Waweru Alias Njahe was charged before Kibera chief Magistrate Ann Mwangi where he denied any wrongdoing. He is alleged to have engaged in the communication with a 14-year-old girl. The charge sheet recorded that the accused person committed the offence on diverse dates between 2022 and January 2023 at Riruta area in Dagoretti Sub- County of Nairobi County. The court heard that the accused person committed the offence with the intent of encouraging the said child to communicate in a sexual manner. The accused person was arrested after the minor’s father is alleged to have gotten the said chats in the minor's phone and reported the matter to the police. In court the accused person’s lawyer told the court that his client was innocent until proven guilty. He also accused the police at Kabete for taking the accused person’s photos and circulating them on social media. He requested the court to allow the police to appear in court to explain their decision to that effect. He also mitigated that the accused person was from a humble background and even raising a cash bail of Sh5,000 was nearly impossible. The magistrate released him on Sh20,000 bond with an alternative cash bail of Sh10,000. The case will be mentioned on February 13 for further directions. Two men accused of stealing women’s shoes were also jailed for 9 months by a Kibera court after pleading guilty to the charges. The two David Wanjohi Kariuki and Richard Mwangi Kamau were jailed by Kibera chief magistrate Ann Mwangi. They were also ordered to pay a fine of Sh46, 000 as an alternative way of securing their freedom. The court heard that the accused person stole the said shoes from David Kabaiku on January 23 at unknown time in Westlands within Nairobi county. According to the prosecution, the complainant went to her shop where he operates Mitumba business and upon opening the shop and inspecting he found his shoes missing. He quickly inquired from the guard who was at the place to know who stole the shoes and he was told that one of the accused person came and picked it. He went at his working place in Uthiru and he found the accused person. He asked the suspect about the whereabout of his shoes but the accused person said he did not know anything about them. Later he found the second accused person selling the said shoes at  Kangemi market and he called the police who came on time and arrested him. 