Sixteen needy students who sat their KCPE exam last year in Kajiado have appealed to well-wishers to help them join secondary schools. They marched in Kajiado town streets with placards displaying their KCPE exam marks, saying they lack school fees to join Form 1. The learners said the ravaging drought and the harsh economic times have forced them to stay at home even after securing places in national secondary schools. "We had 50 cows but they all died due to drought. We are four siblings at home due to lack of school fees and that's what forced us to walk around town in search of scholarships," Joseph Ntasikoi, who scored 393 marks, said. They say they are missing out as the rest of the students are in school. "I scored 401 marks and was to join Makueni Boys High School but my parents are unable to raise fees. I fear that I won't achieve my dreams if I don't get a scholarship," Joseph Kipkoech said. The desperate students are pleading with well-wishers to help them pursue their dreams. "We applied several scholarships offered but we have not suceeded. We are urging any well-wisher to help us pursue our dreams," Francisca Mukavana who scored 361 marks said. Olkejuado Boys Primary deputy head teacher Peter Namasaka who accompanied the students in the walk said he encouraged the students to work hard in school and they did their best only for them to stay at home for lack of school fees. "The students are demoralised even after all the hard work they put in. I want to urge well-wishers to help them so they can join secondary schools," Namasaka said. Enkorika deputy head teacher Charity Karero, who accompanied the students in the walk, said poverty should not be a hindrance to the students realising their dreams. "I won't be able to tell the rest of the students to work hard if their colleagues are at home even after performing well," she said. Ntasikoi's father, Mzee Lein Ntasikoi, said he feels terrible seeing his children at home though they performed well. "The drought has made us beggars, but I have hope that all will get better when it rains. I appeal to well-wishers to come and give us a helping hand as we wait for better days," he said.