Azimio la Umoja leader Raila Odinga has intensified his onslaught against the regime of President William Ruto maintaining that it is illegitimate. Raila, yet again, accused Ruto of stealing his victory in the recently concluded general election of August 9, 2022. Odinga says the IEBC shortchanged his win of 8.1 million votes against the 5.9 million votes of William Ruto. He now wants the IEBC to open its servers and give out the reality of the last general election. "We want the IEBC to open their server and give the truth about who won the elections because I feel my victory was stolen," Odinga said. Odinga was speaking at Esiandumba grounds during the homecoming party of Luanda MP Dick Maungu. He also accused President Ruto's administration of not delivering the promises made during the campaigns. "They said the cost of living will be lowered, has it been done?" Odinga questioned. The ODM leader said the world is facing a financial crisis but most countries are developing new strategies to cut down the financial crisis. Also present at the function was Former Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya, DAP-K leader Eugene Wamalwa and a host of MPs. Oparanya in his speech castigated Vihiga governor Wilber Ottichilo describing him as a "hard person to deal with". Oparanya's statements evoked reactions from the public which demanded to know where the incumbent Governor Wilber Ottichilo was. "As a governor, I don't need to go to the State House for development as the county cash has been anchored in the constitution," Oparanya said. Wamalwa on his part accused the Kenya Kwanza regime of "stealing" its majority status in the National Assembly. "We had more MPs and more governors but Kenya kwanza Administration has been busy buying them to strengthen their party," he said. He said the Kenyan democracy is at risk as most of the MPs "are on sale". Wamalwa says they are having citizens' Barazas because the nation is at risk. Vihiga senator Godfrey Osotsi urged the leader of the minority in the National Assembly to consider Luanda MP Dick Maungu to be in the Transport committee to ensure Roads within Vihiga county are developed. He urged Ottichilo not to fear anyone citing that the county will get enough resources for development. The lawmaker accused Ruto's administration of not developing the Nation as per his promises during his Campaign. The senator further told off those threatening him to join Kenya Kwanza saying they won't make it. "Some people from Kenya kwanza have been selling fear to me just like they have done to governor Wilber Ottichilo," Osotsi said. Minority leader in the National Assembly Opiyo Wandayi urged university students not to allow fees increment. "We urge our university students to cripple the learning process until the fees is lowered back to Sh16000," Wadayi said. Makadara  MP George Aladwa said they will comply with 14-day ultimatum issued by Raila Odinga. "Baba, the 14 days you gave us we shall comply with it and the order you will give us she shall amplify it," Aladwa said. Alego Usonga Mp Samwel Atandi faulted president William Ruto for hiking his office budget. "Former president Uhuru Kenyatta's budget at state house was Sh4.4 billion but he since ascended to power, Ruto has increased the budget," Atandi said.