Elders in Bura East Sub County in Garissa County have pledged to cooperate fully with the government in the war against terrorism. Speaking after a special meeting with security officials, a section of political leaders, chiefs and the elders, led by Salah Barre Abdi, the group said that they will not seat down and watch as the militants run the show and tear down the social fabric of the society. Salah, a former canceller said that the war against terror could only be won with the full support of the residents working closely with the security apparatus saying that failure to eradicate the rag-tam militia means that the region will continue to lag behind in development. "The terrorists have no mercy for anyone regardless of religion or tribe and therefore the Somali community equally suffers when they carry out their heinous acts. The result is that the education and health sector among others suffers," he said. Garissa county commissioner Boaz Cherutich urged the residents to continue working closely with the government by sharing information on suspected al-Shabaab terrorists. “We want to root out the terrorists who have tried to destabilize peace in this area and so these elders have agreed to work with us by creating awareness of peace in the villages,” Cherutich said. “We are warning that the government will take stern action against any culprit who will be arrested in the security operations,” he added. Fafi MP Salah Yakub said that the recent terrorist attacks had created fear among the residents and that there was a need for concerted efforts in dealing with the insurgents. “Some schools and hospitals have been closed and sometimes people cannot use the roads because of fear which is making their lives difficult but today we have agreed in one accord to complement the efforts of the security apparatus and work together,” Yakub said. Salah promised to buy all the chiefs and the assistants motorcycle to ease their movements in rural areas. “People know where they stay, where the camps are and so we want them to leave our area immediately or we, the people of this area, will deal with them,” Yakub said. “We will not allow them to interfere with development projects of this constituency,” he added. There has been suspicion that some members of the community know who the terrorists are but are worried that they may be attacked when they share the information with the police. Rising terror attacks have forced security bosses to suspend the construction of a crucial road linking Kenya and South Sudan. There have been seven attacks since December 8 targeting the project workers and property leaving at least 15 people dead and destroying valuables. The latest incident happened on January 17 when a convoy carrying the workers escorted by military personnel was attacked. Insiders said six people died. On January 11, four road engineers were killed when their vehicle was blown up by an explosive fired by the al-Shabaab militants. The workers were inspecting the road project when they came under attack in the Bura East sub-county. So serious is the issue that the security personnel led by Northeastern regional commissioner John Otieno two weeks ago convened a security meeting with local administrators from the 10 sub-counties in the county on the renewed attacks. During the meeting, the RC said the government will not allow al-Shabaab insurgents to interfere with the construction of the Lapsset project.