Former Defense CS Eugene Wamalwa claims there is a plan to petition for additional counties when the 13th parliament resumes next week. Wamalwa urged Azimio legislators to reject the petition if tabled in parliament arguing that is intended to kill devolution. He claimed that President William Ruto and his administration were behind the petition. “As you resume to parliament, there are a few things that are coming before you. For me, there is one that is a great concern, and I really want you to look at it. "It concerns devolution, our counties. There will be a petition for additional counties,” Wamalwa said. “That petition is targeting certain counties, and I believe that President William Ruto is fully behind it. He is targeting to divide the counties of Trans Nzoia, Bungoma, Busia to create Teso County, and also Migori to create Kuria County,” Wamalwa said. Wamalwa said though they were all within their rights to take the petition to parliament, there was already a wage between the communities in the regions where the three counties are likely to be created. “The real issue that is on the ground now, coming from these parts of Kenya where three counties are likely to be created, you can feel already this driving wage between communities and those who were in support of the Constitution 2010,” Wamalwa said. “I can tell you for sure that those in the State House were not part of that progressive movement that brought about this Constitution. They are those who opposed it then and they don’t have the interest of the Constitution at heart,” Wamalwa said. The former CS said those behind the changes were not doing so to advance the objects of devolution under Article 174. He said they were doing so for political expedite. Wamalwa said Raila in 2022 polls won in the majority of the counties. He said over 24 counties went blue. “Ruto won 21 counties or so, and he is trying to see how to create additional counties for 2027 purposes. And the three, I’m sure he is persuading the minority communities that he will protect them, And if we make that mistake, we would have opened a Pandora’s Box when we create ethnic-based counties,” Wamalwa said. “Where will you stop? Because beyond those communities, there will be now a demand by many of the marginalized. It can’t be good for our national cohesion,” Wamalwa said. Wamalwa wondered where the government will get funds to disburse to the newly created counties if it already says there are no funds for the 47 counties. “See how to drive that agenda to defend devolution. If anything, we should be looking for more resources to grow the 47 counties,” Wamalwa told the MPs.