A section of Kirinyaga county leaders have called for a ceasefire between communities living along the borders of Kirinyaga and Embu. This follows the death of two brothers from Kiamanyeki village, Mwea, who were lynched this week on suspicion of  being livestock thieves. Joseph Ndung’u, 35, and Kennedy Gitau, 28, were allegedly killed by charged Nyumba Kumi members as they responded  to a rescue call from their cousins who were in the hands of irate locals. Martin Mwaura, a cousin of the deceased brothers, recalled how he received the unfortunate news of their untimely death. He the two had thrown a bash on the Embu side to celebrate the departure of one of them abroad for greener pastures. “They were celebrating the achievement before receiving the distressing call for help from their cousins who were held by Nyumba Kumi members in the wee hours of the night on  suspicion of stealing cattle.When they dashed to the scene, the members turned against them for sympathising with the suspects, lynched them and thereafter  set  their bodies and  motor cycle ablaze,” he said. The cousins who had called them managed to escape and sought refuge at the Ciagi-ini police post before being released. Mwaura said the two brothers were married and had  each bought land in Embu where they had thrown the bash in one of the farms on the fateful night. In retaliation, residents from Kiamanyeki village in Kirinyaga destroyed a footbridge that Gategi residents of Embu use to cross over to Kirinyaga. It took the intervention of Kiarukungu location chief Henry Kariuki to calm the angry locals. Bodies of the deceased are currently lying at the Embu Level 5 hospital awaiting postmortem. Tension has been palpable on the border of the two counties over increase in livestock theft. The leaders have fronted ideas of organising barazas and leadership meetings to foster unity and end the bad blood between the two bordering communities. Governor Ann Waiguru has said she is ready to hold talks with her Embu counterpart Sicily Mbarire to resolve any issue that might be arousing animosity between the two communities. Senator Kamau Murango emphasized the need for the Kirinyaga county commissioner and his Embu counterpart to organise for an urgent baraza at Gategi to find lasting solutions to problems occasioning the hostility. While condemning the attack on the brothers, Murango said residents should desist from taking the law into their hands and report to the police. He called for speedy investigations into the deaths of the brothers and subsequent charging of the culprits. His appeal was backed by Mwea MP Mary Maingi who also condemned the deaths and called for speedy investigations into the matter. The legislator described the killings as barbaric. Maingi said she has since initiated talks with her Mbeere South counterpart on how to restore peace between the two warring parties. Two Kirinyaga assembly MCAs whose wards boarder Embu said a peace meeting is long overdue. Peter Karinga (Tebere) and Peter Njiru(Wamumu) said the two communities have been living for long in harmony and  nothing should come between them. 