Nairobi Karura MCA Fiunifiu Thuo has called for an investigation into the closure of roads leading to Karura forest. In a request for a statement, the ward reps say that Thigiri Lane and Thigiri Close on November 21, 2022, closed the two public roads for maintenance. Karura forest was gazetted in 1932 and sits at an estimated 1041.3 hectares of land. The roads to access Karura forest Sigiria  Block has always been through Thigiri Lane. However, Thuo said there have been concerted efforts to block the road by a section of residents. Early this month, the MCA claimed roads were abandoned with claims that they are private and not public roads. “Surprisingly, on 3rd  February 2023 Kenya Urban Roads Authority Kura disowned these roads, stating that they are private roads and goes forth to recommend that traffic along these roads be prohibited,” Thuo said.     As a  result, the area MCA has raised several concerns starting with how did the status of Thigiri Lane and Thigiri Close roads change between November 2022 and February 2023 from public roads to private roads. Thuo has also questioned how KURA secured a budget and indeed upgraded and maintained the said roads. He is also seeking answers on how then was the financing for maintenance of these roads secured by the authority if they are not public roads. "Assuming Thigiri Lane and Thigiri Close aren't public roads belonging to KURA on what basis does KURA proceed to recommend prohibition of traffic on these roads?” he posed. In addition to that, the city ward rep says that Kura allegedly issued a recommendation letter prohibiting vehicular traffic on Thigiri lane. “This action shall hinder the public from accessing Karura Forest Sigiria Block which serves so many citizens in the county,” Thuo said In a letter seen by the Star dated November 21, 2022, by Kura,  the authority said the project which was financed through the Road Maintenance levy fund commenced on October 14, 2022, and will end on April 14, 2023. “We inform you that Thigiri land and close are both public roads,” reads the letter. In another letter dated February  3, 2023, Kura said that the roads under dispute are estate roads terminating at dead ends. The also noted that the roads will introduce heavy traffic in the estates and pose a danger to motorists and residents. “It is therefore our recommendation that through traffic along these roads be prohibited,” reads the letter. As a result, Karura MCA wants the county assembly chairperson for transport to require and report on whether Thigiri lane along Thigiri Ridge is classified as a Nairobi City County Public Road Thuo also wants to know whether the county executive is aware that there have been efforts to block Thigiri lane by a section of residents "Whether any public participation was conducted by Kura before recommending the prohibition of vehicular traffic accessing Karura forest Sigiria Block on Thigiri lane ?" he posed. The MCA also wants the committee to establish whether the county executive is aware that Kura has recommended the prohibition of public access to Karura forest Sigiria block through Thigiri lane.