On Friday, the Goethe Institut officially reopened its spaces with a new, fresh look to the public. To celebrate this milestone, Goethe Institut Nairobi is hosting a three day action-packed event from February 17-19. The reopening comes after they closed down for 18 months following their extensive renovation, which entailed adding new spaces and modernising the existing spaces. The relaunch was officiated by the German deputy ambassador Thomas Wimmer, Goethe Institut Nairobi director Lilli Kobler, the Kenya Cultural Centre CEO Michael Pundo and the Maendeleo ya Wanawake Organisation chairperson Rahab Mwikali Muiu. The newly reinvented spaces saw the library, auditorium, and workspaces get a fresh, modern look to make them more welcoming, and interactive and stimulate creativity and interactions. Speaking during the private reopening event, Goethe Institut Nairobi director Lilli Kobler said they are happy to celebrate the reopening of their spaces. “We are right in the heart of Nairobi and we are celebrating that we have just finished refurbishing and modernizing our spaces,” she said. Kobler noted that they have a big new library space that hosts reading activities, provides access to different media and books. She said the spaces aim to attract children and creatives as well as anyone interested in seeking information around Germany. The revamped spaces now also feature a terrace that offers a wide range of activities. These include a digital corner, Virtual Reality (VR) stations, Gaming Fridays, and a safe and engaging kids section that is geared at nurturing creative talents and encouraging a reading culture from an early age. The library received a facelift and has been fitted with elegant glass walls and transformed into a much larger area. It spills over into the terrace making it easily accessible, functional, and fit for learning and knowledge sharing. Additionally, the library now boasts of a revised stock of books after the Goethe-Institut Nairobi reduced nearly three-quarters of the collection they had and gave them out to universities and museums. “People in their hundreds are lounging in the terrace outside listening to a DJ set and an album launch,” Kobler said. “We have new modernised and customer friendly offices that are welcoming  and inspiring to work in.” Kobler added that they have reopened their auditorium space that is now expanded. This space is welcoming to new experiments by Kenyan artists and creatives. “We want to experiment between the Kenyan and German cultural and educational works as well, therefore we are welcoming anyone who wants to collaborate in such,” she said. The reopening also coincided with Goethe-Institut Kenya’s 60 years celebration of Kenyan-German cultural relations. “We have been here from the very start, since 1963, working on cultural exchange, teaching the German language, and building access to Germany,” Kobler said. She added that Covid limited their language teaching  classes well as hosting cultural activities. These were the main reasons for the reopening of the spaces. Dozens of both upcoming and renowned artists are expected to be showcasing their various projects at the ongoing event. Works being showcased include a VR project dubbed “The Heritage Museum”. It aims to create awareness about the heritage, history, and importance of Kenya’s displaced artefacts. The audience will also be treated to an exhibition by Jojo Records of specially curated and handpicked vinyl spanning as far back as the 1980s. “The vinyl exhibition will be running for three weeks, from today until March 9, and we will expecting artists like Octopizzo who will be performing on Sunday to be in attendance,” Kobler said. The Goethe-Institut’s long-standing partner Just A Band will also premiere their new performance film “Echo”. It both looks back at the band’s history and showcases their upcoming work, followed by a comeback appearance during a Q&A with fans.Access to all activities will be free of charge to the public. “We are a language school, of course, therefore we will charge our language courses,” Kobler said. She said that going forward the people will eventually make the spaces come alive. “The more creative spaces you can provide with Germans and Kenyans allows people  to discuss and debate about different things," Kobler said. “People can also watch a film which can give access to different worlds, knowledge and just expanding, being creative and also experimenting."