There are several ways you can use Google’s features on Multisearch to find information, move and explore the world around you. Here are the seven hacks you can use for visual search on Google. If you are searching for the right interior furnishings, Multisearch can help. Open the google app, and tap on the lens icon in the search box. Take a picture of the item you are searching for e.g, a dining set, and then add the term “coffee table” to find a similar table. If you are inspired by a pattern but want it on another item instead, Multisearch can help you find your inspiration. For example, if you spot a cool pattern on a wallpaper, you can use Multisearch to snap a photo and add the text “shirt” to get the design on a shirt. If you want to get things done and don’t know how to go about them, through Multisearch, you can easily get them done. For example, if a bike part is broken and you are looking to fix it, you can take a picture and add the text, “how to fix” to get a guide on how to do it. If you are taking notes and want to make them digital, you can use Lens to copy and paste the text. If you want to get more information about objects or places you see in photos and videos, you can utilise “search your screen” on your device. For example, your friend sends a message with a video exploring Zanzibar and you’d like to learn more about the landmark you see in the background. You can long press on the video on your screen and then tap “search screen” Lens identifies what you are looking for and then you can click to learn more. With this technology, you can search what you see in photos or videos across the websites and apps you know and love, like messaging and video apps. If you have travelled to another country and you can’t read and understand the menu, you can open your camera in Lens, and then click translate. All starters, main courses, and desserts are then translated into a language you understand. In case you are walking around and can’t find your way, you can use Google Maps Live View for walking navigation. It uses augmented reality (AR) to display arrows and directions to point you to where you need to go. You can now also use the Search with Live View to help find things around you. These include ATMs, restaurants, and even train stations just by lifting your phone. Google recently launched Search with Live View in several cities, including Paris and London, and in the coming months, they’ll start expanding it to more places like Barcelona, Madrid, and Dublin.