The Kajiado county government has made a breakthrough in the control and treatment of contagious caprine pleuropneumonia (CCP), a disease of goats. Veterinary experts say CCPP has a high morbidity of 100 per cent and mortality of between 80-100 per cent. According to the county department of agriculture, livestock, irrigation and fisheries CEC member Jackline Koin, CCPP affects goats in more than 40 countries of the world. “They pose a serious threat to goat farming around the globe. The clinical signs of CCPP are severe respiratory distress associated with seromucoid nasal discharge, coughing, dyspnea, and general malaise,” said Koin. Koin said the studies on antibiotic sensitivity and exploration of novel antibiotics could help in better therapeutic management besides preventing the menace of antibiotic resistance. “It is, for this reason, the county government commissioned a 3-year study to investigate the effectiveness of the current contagious caprine pleuropneumonia vaccine and specifically to improve it,” said Koin. The county minister said the study was carried out by the directorate of veterinary service (Kajiado), the Kenya Agricultural and Livestock Research  Organisation, Kenya Veterinary Vaccines Production Institute, Kenyatta University and the pastoralists in Kajiado. The county minister said after the findings of the collaborated research, her department received 102,000 doses of contagious caprine pleuropneumonia from the Kenya Climate Smart Agriculture Project. Speaking during the handing over of the vaccine doses, Koin extended governor Joseph Lenku’s gratitude for the support the county has received in finding solutions to diseases affecting livestock in the county. “This particular intervention will go a long way in helping our farmers access international markets. I am also thanking Food Agricultural Organisation for equally supporting livestock disease control in Kajiado,” said Koin. She said the new model of vaccine delivered to the county will be administered in six wards. They include; Rombo, Entonet Lenkisim, Matapato South, Dalalekutuk, Magadi and Ewuaso. Once this is successful, she said, it will be upscaled to the rest of the county.