Narok Senator Ledama Ole Kina has warned the nine rebel ODM leaders of being rejected by their supporters. Speaking in Kisumu during an anti-Ruto rally, Ledama said most Nyanza leaders won elections because of Raila Odinga's favor. "Nataka kutuma onyo, hao viongozi wote wa nyanza walichaguliwa kwa sababu ya baba,na sahii mbona wanasaliti baba kwenda state house,"Ledama said. (I want to send a warning, all those Nyanza leaders were elected because of Baba. But why are they betraying him by going to the State House?) The calls come amidst the looming expulsion of the nine ODM party members who met President William Ruto in State House. The nine who were a no-show at the rally met Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua on Friday. "Wale wote ambao wanaenda state house mufukuze hao, wote mpaka wasimame na baba kabisa, baba sio mtoto mdogo," Ledama added. "All those who are going to the state house, expel them, all of them until they stand completely with Raila completely," he said. The legislators are Phelix Oduor (Lang’ata), Mark Nyamita (Uriri), Elisha Odhiambo (Gem) Paul Abuor (Rongo), and Caroli Omondi (Suba South). Others are Gideon Ochanda (Bondo) and Tom Ojienda (Senator, Kisumu). Nairobi Senator Edwin Sifuna said he received a response from Ojienda who claimed it was the residents who sent him to State House. "Aliniambia nyinyi mlimtuma...ni ukweli mlimtuma? " Sifuna said. The crowd responded by denying the sentiments by their Senator Ojienda. The legislators have since been christened as traitors after they met and pledged support to President William Ruto at State House. In their defense, the defiant MPs insisted that they met the head of State to discuss development. They claimed that their visit was a follow-up of the promises the President made during his whirlwind tour of the Luo-Nyanza. Azimio has held a series of rallies dubbed people's baraza which began in Nairobi and has since been held outside the capital in Machakos, Busia with the latest being the Kisii rally on Friday.