National handball champions Nairobi Water Queens coach Jack Ochieng is convinced his side will successfully retain the Kenya Handball Federation women’s title. Speaking following his charges drowned Nairobi City County 55-6 in a one-sided clash at the Nyayo Stadium on Sunday, Ochieng said he does not see his unbeaten girls drop points in two of their remaining five games. His challengers National Cereals and Produce Board and Ulinzi Sharks have lost two games each. “I can tell you today that this title is as good as gone. I do not see how my team can lose two matches in our remaining fixtures,” Ochieng said. “We still have tough matches left against Sharks and Cereals. These two teams also have a fixture against each other and that means one of them will lose a third match,” said Ochieng. He said Sharks’ 32-29 defeat to Bungoma-based Rangers did enough to swing the pendulum his way. “It was that Rangers’ win against the soldiers that moved us even closer to another title. And it also boosted their morale in a big way,” he said. Captain Gladys Chilo concurred with her coach’s sentiments, saying: “We train smart and that is why we manage to stand out.” In that one-sided demolition of NCC, Chilo tossed in 12 goals, Cecilia Katheu sunk 10 while Brenda Musambai and Faith Mikhala bagged six each. Damaris Wanjala hit three goals, Josephine Ngasi two and Diana Akinyi one for NCC, who trailed 24-4 at half time. That win saw Water Queens, who are also the East and Central Africa Club champions, remain top of the table with maximum 34 points from 17 matches. Ochieng said they will seek to continue with their scoring form since goal aggregate might come in handy at the end of it all. Rangers’ three wins in Nairobi last weekend propelled them to second with 29 points from 18 ties, NCPB are third with 28 from 16 games while Sharks are fourth with 24 points from 14 matches. In the men’s last game of the week, seventh-placed Buccaneers took a 22-12 half time lead and went in to thrash Spartan 43-23. Arnold Kiplagat nailed 16 goals and Francis Njoroge scored 11 for the winners. Spartans who are second from bottom in the 18-team league had six goals from Brian Muinam.