Wildlife conservation groups have stepped up efforts to protect cranes which have been categorised as an endangered species due to their rapidly dwindling population in the North Rift and Western regions. The International Crane Foundation, Endangered Wildlife Trust and Community Action for Nature Conservation have been banding and ringing cranes in Nandi, Trans Nzoia and Uasin Gishu. Research and monitoring specialist Dr Maurice Ogoma said the drive targets crane chicks aged 10-14 weeks old. “We have been conducting one of our routine activities which is crane banding and ringing,” he said. Ogoma said ringing is usually done to the crane chicks for various reasons, among them monitoring the movement and activities of the birds. “With ringing and branding it’s possible to monitor how long they live and when and where they move,” he said. Ogoma said ringing also aids in collecting the bird’s biometrics that includes the wing size, tarsus length and weight, among other details. “We also identify the various threats they face to help us get details that are vital for the species conservation,” he said. The banding and ringing activities are done in conjunction with Kenya Wildlife Services and the National Museums of Kenya's ornithology section. “We want to establish their movement patterns, their breeding success, survival rates and the challenges they face in their breeding and feeding areas," Ogoma said. Ringing also helps us in various research activities to understand and ascertain the biology and ecology of the cranes. Banding and ringing requires proper planning, with deployment of field teams in advance. “We begin with monitoring the birds and their movements, locating their breeding sites and watching them for up to 10-14 weeks before ringing can be done,” he said. He said there is a worrying trend in the declining number of cranes around the East African region. Dr Ogoma said the trend had resulted in the Grey Crowned Crane Species being threatened thus their inclusion in the International Union for Conservation of Nature red list as an endangered species. He said the last national crane census in Kenya in 2019 came up with approximately slightly more than 7,800 cranes all over the country. The population had dropped compared to the figures in 2015 when the national crane population was estimated to be between 10,000 and 12,500 individuals. Dr Ogoma said like any other living organism, cranes face challenges because of various human activities. They include encroachment into wetlands by farmers, which are the birds breeding places, poisoning and illegal trade. Vivian Kitui from the International Crane Foundation said there is a need for increased awareness on the conservation of the East Africa grey cranes that are on the verge of extinction. “The East Africa grey crane is only found in Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda among few East African countries. It is a beautiful bird that has been used as an emblem by a number of institutions such as Nairobi University," she said. "It is also found in the Ugandan flag and it’s a rich heritage that should be conserved for future generations.” Kitui urged county governments and government agencies to ensure conservation of wetlands that are a key breeding site for the birds.