An unknown number of thugs broke into Public Service, Affirmative Action and Gender CS Aisha Jumwa's Nairobi home and stole valuables and cash. The gang, who police termed as burglars, terrorised the family, demanding cash and electronics before escaping. The attackers spent almost four hours in the house before leaving at about 5am on Wednesday, the victims said. Jumwa was not home at the time of the incident but her daughter and a house help were in the newly acquired house in Loresho, police said. They escaped with mobile phones, unknown amount of cash and other valuables belonging to the CS and her family. No one was injured but those present were left terrified, police said. The guards who were on duty were missing and it is believed they could have been part of the gang behind the attack on the house. The gang first broke through a section of a wall around the house before they accessed the house through the kitchen door, police who visited the scene said. The house is on a compound that has similar structures, which are still under construction. Police who visited the scene said they had not been informed the CS stays there. “She had not informed the police in Gigiri or Nairobi Area that she acquired this house and moved there. That would explain why there were no armed police on duty there,” an officer who attended the scene said. Crime experts visited the scene on Wednesday morning and spent their time looking for evidence on who the attackers could be. Nairobi regional police commander Adamson Bungei said they suspect the attackers knew the house well. He said they are investigating the incident and are looking for the guards who were on duty for questioning. “This looks like an incident committed by people who knew what they wanted and knew there were no police officers in the compound,” Bungei said. “According to preliminary findings, they knew what they wanted. They demanded valuables and cash from the victims. The CS was not present.” We were unable to get a comment from CS Jumwa as she did not respond to our calls and text messages. Jumwa is entitled to police guards at her Nairobi and rural homes. On January 29, two burglars raided the Nairobi home of Prime Cabinet Secretary Musalia Mudavadi and made away with a 40 inch TV set and gas cylinder. It remains unclear how the burglars accessed the well-guarded home in Karen. Police said a review of CCTV footage showed two men jumping over the perimeter fence at 4.30pm. One of them covered one of the CCTV cameras with a plastic object to hide their identity. They then accessed some rooms in the compound and stole the items before escaping. The property is usually guarded by officers from the presidential security. Police say the affected rooms had not been attended to for long. A son of Mudavadi identified as Moses, told police that a house help told him that one of the TV sets and gas cylinders were missing. This prompted a police check that established the incident happened on Sunday afternoon. The CS and his wife were not home at the time of the incident. The son was in a different room and did not realise it had happened. It took the house help to visit the rooms to realise it had happened. Police said they had established the electric fence at the compound was not working at the time of the incident. Mudavadi is among VIPs who are highly protected.