Acting Maasai Mara University Vice Chancellor Prof. Joseph Chacha has warned staff against recognising or adhering to duties accorded to them by Prof Mary Walingo. In a memo dated January 31, 2023, Prof. Chacha notifies the staff members that Prof. Walingo has not been reinstated by the university and that she remains barred from accessing the university premises. “You are hereby notified that Prof. Mary Walingo has not been reinstated by the University Council, neither are there orders given by court directing her physical resumption of duty,” reads the memo seen by the Star. “The University has orders in place barring her from accessing the University and staying the decision of her reinstatement to work on the suspension basis by the Public Service Commission (PSC),” the memo further states. Two weeks ago, the public service commission issued an order directing the reinstatement of Prof Walingo back to her position pending the hearing and determination of a corruption case against her. Walingo’s tenure at the Maasai Mara University expires in September, this year, and the university on Wednesday last week said its HR department has the power to terminate her contract in compliance with the law. Chacha acting on behalf of the university council said that Prof. Walingo has not been officially cleared by the court and her job resumption is not on any official approval and thereby terms her access to the university premises as “irregular and illegal”. In the memo, Chacha warned the staff members against aiding or abetting Prof. Walingo’s entry into the university, adding that anyone found culpable will be held liable. He said: “It has been noted with concern that some members of staff are aiding and abetting Prof.Walingo's entry into the University, thus interfering with the normal operations of the University. You are notified that such acts border on insubordination of the Office of the Vice-Chancellor and the University Council, and as such, individuals will be held liable for their actions,” states Prof. Chacha. Walingo was sent on leave in 2019 when she was implicated in an alleged Sh.177 million corruption scandal dubbed the 'Mara Heist'. She was charged alongside four other officials from the university for withdrawing money irregularly in crimes dating back to 2016. She was ordered to step aside as investigations ensued. However, in September last year, the Public Service Commission directed that Walingo be reinstated back to her position pending a hearing and determination of the case against her. PSC Chief Executive Officer Simon Rotich further directed that Walingo be paid half of her salary and allowances from the date of her suspension. "The appellant, be reinstated back to her employment on suspension pending the hearing and determination of the Anti-Corruption Case and/or until her contract is lawfully terminated," read part of the statement. Upon her dismissal, Walingo was succeeded by Prof Kitche Magak who was later replaced by Joseph Chacha in January 2022.