More than 50 applicants have been shortlisted by the Kisumu county public service board for the position of the chief officer. The candidates are scheduled to face the interviewing panel at the board’s office in Milimani on March 7 and 13. Among the shortlisted include, former Tourism chief officer Dr Gerald Ondiek, acting health chief officer Dr Ojwang Lusi, former Kisumu Girls and Bunyore Girls principal Mary Akunja and former Kisumu county public health director Fred Oluoch. According to the advertisement seen by the Star, the candidates are required to carry with them their original identity card (ID), and academic and professional certificates. The board has asked candidates with any disabilities who may require special arrangements during the interview to inform the board before the interview date. Dr Ondiek, a university don who served in the tourism department, has been shortlisted alongside Joseph Oganga, John Mingala, former trade director Bovince Ochieng and former tourism director Thomas Ouko. Dr Lusi, who served as health chief officer and acting county secretary during former governor Jack Ranguma’s regime, has been shortlisted for the position of the chief officer of medical services, public health and sanitation. Others listed for the position are Oluoch, James Odiga, Pauline Amolo and Samuel Owino. Akunja has been shortlisted alongside Fredrick Osewe, Mark Okowa, Penina Onyango and Samson Jagero for education chief officer. Ex-finance chief officer Cephas Kasera, who served under Ranguma, has also been shortlisted alongside the current acting chief officer Wilson Abiero, Paul Waweru, Henry Okoth, Aggrey Ochieng and Collins Agutu. Kasera served for five years in the position. Six candidates have been listed namely Paul Onunga, Rosemary Wanasunia, Erick Ogallo, Charles Owino, Alloys Mbeka and Calleb Ochia for the agriculture, livestock, fisheries and Livestock and Irrigation. In the department of water and environment, Zacheus Okoth, Kevin Amimo, Maurice Owino, Bernard Asuna, Francis Asuna and Jared Okowa have been listed. Under infrastructure, ex-roads chief officer Eng. Samuel Ondola, Daniel Okia, David Jomeli and James Akumu and Ephren Ouma have been shortlisted. Eng. Ondola served during Ranguma’s regime. Salim Omollo, Fred Sungu, Benter Achieng, Rachael Musyoki, Erick Wanjagi and Joyce Omollo have been listed as chief officers of public service, country administration and participatory development. Timothy Kajwang, Tobias Odundo, Patricia Kariaga, Justine Otieno and Jibril Mohammed have been listed as chief officers of sports, culture, gender and youth affairs. In the lands and Physical planning, Moses Orege, Christopher Ondiek, Victor Kanyaura and Steve Gome have been shortlisted for the position.