For all my Big Brother fanatics, gather around. We are now at Big Brother Titans. Safe to say Big Brother is making a comeback in Africa. No? Maybe? Definitely? Big Brother Africa was the first version of the Big Brother franchise, which first aired in 2003 before making a comeback in 2007. The show was later cancelled in 2014. Of course, Kenya made it to the participants' list. Talk of Kwambox, Huddah, Prezzo, Alex Malonza, Malonza Chege, Sabina Stadler, Melvin Alusa and Annabel Mbaru. Back in the day, Prezzo came close to a win when he bagged runners-up. The reality series was the talk of the town. It was Africa’s biggest reality show. Reports had it that the Jo’burg facility that was to house the contestants of the ninth edition caught fire but nobody was hurt. In the ninth season, Big Brother hotshot made a comeback in 2014, whereby Idris Sultan emerged as the ultimate hotshot of the season. The Big Brother franchise has had a number of mini-shows to it. Aside from BBA, we also had Big Brother Naija and Big Brother Angola as well. To BBN fans, we all remember Ebuka’s season, which was the first one, then it went to See Gobbe, Double Wahala, Pepper Dem, Lockdown, Shine ya Eye, and then last year’s season, Level Up. This year, Nigeria partnered with South Africa to bring about Big Brother Titans. I don’t know about you, but it came as a surprise. If you followed BBN, you would know that if a season ended, viewers would have to wait a year and then watch the reunion of the previous show before the new one started. This special edition is meant to be a fusion of BB Naija and BB Mzansi. Pretty interesting, if I may say. Although I may not know the housemates' names, I can say that the show is doing pretty well. A TikToker took to his socials and made a video of how Kenyans and Ghanaians were supposedly feeling when they realised they were not part of the Big Brother show. Ghanaians in the comments section expressed their disinterest in being associated with the show. Of course, Kenyans being Kenyans were not left behind. A lot of Kenyan comments were based on how we have better things to do with our time, we don’t care, and we are busy making money, to even others asking what is Big Brother? Others genuinely felt bad that we were left out. I am starting to think that the type of social media hype Kenyans have has had creators from all over try to make content that involves Kenya as a country. You have to be careful, though. If your content rubs off badly on people, it doesn’t end too well for you. You have seen instances where creators have been asked to issue an apology. If your content is okay, you are good to go. If you make content about Africa in general, Kenyans are in the comments section confirming and approving the content if it speaks to our country. I am sure creators outside Kenya make content that does not rub off badly on us just to be on the safe side, you know. The amount of social media respect and unity we have for ourselves out there is just wow. It is now a culture to converge in the comments section. If we can channel that same energy into a lot of things outside social media, I am sure we will be far as a country. I think we might be looking at a gradual bounce back of the Big Brother Africa reality show. Let’s see how things work out for Ziyakhala Wahala.