Nyanza region basketball champions Onjiko and Maseno School will renew their rivalry during the Amadi Open Tournament this weekend. Last year, Onjiko dethroned Maseno at the county level and went ahead to win the Nyanza region title on debut. Patrick Mboya, the Maseno basketball coach said his team is ready. “Being defending champions, Onjiko will be under pressure. We played a friendly two weeks and lost to then. They looked sharp and better, however, if we get an opportunity to play them again this weekend, we hope to go head-to-head,” said Mboya. In rugby, Western region rivals Kakamega High School and Koyonzo will be in contention. They will be joined by hosts Maseno, Nakuru High, Nduru Boys, Kabianga, Vihiga High, St Mary’s Yala and Butula Boys according to tournament coordinator Caleb Olang’o. “Rugby 7’s and 15’s will be highly contested because most of the teams entered are regulars at the national championships. National Sevens champions Koyonzo will also be in the house,” said Olang’o. He said the schools are using this tournament to test their teams ahead of Term One games. Other schools that have confirmed their participation are national girl’s football champions Wiyeta and former Nyanza regional girls hockey champions Sinyolo Girls. The tournament will feature football, basketball, hockey, chess, rugby, handball, volleyball and racquet games. “So far, 50 schools and institutions of higher learning have confirmed participation. We expect more teams to take part,” he told the Star on phone. He at the same time exuded confidence that Maseno will restore their lost glory. “Our teams participated in Yala and Kamusinga Open tournaments where they gave a good account of themselves. I’m confident we shall regain our regional titles this year,” said Olang’o. Meanwhile, the annual Mbita High School open tournament will also be held this weekend. Coordinator Kennedy Atanga said more than 20 schools have confirmed participation. “Following the cancellation of Homa Bay open, we expect more teams to confirm participation by Friday,” said Atanga. Some of the teams enlisted include Agoro Sare, Homa Bay High, Gendia, Kanga High, St Joseph’s Rapogi, Orero, Ulanda, Oriwo, Ringa, Kandiege among others. Elsewhere, Agoro Sare’s rugby coach Kistus Onditi says his Sevens team will target the regional final and a place at the national championships. “I’m currently working on conditioning and mental preparedness ,” he said. During the Agoro Sare Open, they lost 19-14 to Rongo University in the Sevens final.