Caroline Chepkemoi launched her track career by strolling to victory in the women’s 10, 000 during the first Athletics Kenya track and field weekend meeting at Moi Stadium in Kisumu City. Chepkemoi, a cross-country specialist, says she is using the AK weekend meetings to prepare for national selections for the All Africa Games and World Athletics Championships in August. “I’m targeting a slot in the Kenyan team for All Africa Games and World Championships,” she said after winning the race in the scorching Kisumu sun. The 13th Africa Games will be held in Ghana from August 4-19 while Budapest, Hungary will host the World Athletics Championships from August 19 to 27. During the race, Chepkemoi who trains in Kericho won in 35:30.3, beating Bahrain’s Roselida Jepketer who clocked 35:32.1. Third place went to Chepng’etich Langat who clocked a time of 35:43.8. In last weekend’s Sirikwa Cross Country  Tour, Chepkemoi finished 14th while Jepketer was fourth. “This was a very tough and tactical race. I’m looking forward to a very successful season because I believe these weekend meetings are good build-ups,” she said. In the women’s 400m hurdles final, Winnie Jelagat emerged winner in 64.6 and was followed by Valentine Okaya (64.6) in second place.  Gladys Ngure (65.3) was third. Peter Mwangi won the shotput event with a throw of 15.60m, beating KDF’s Alex Wachira to second place with a throw of 14.61. The women’s event went to Linda Kageha with a throw of 12.82 while Sarah Atieno (12.50) and Maureen Akisa (11.61) placed second and third respectively.  “It was not my best throw but I hope to improve with time. I will step up my training before the next event,” she said. AK senior vice president and competitions director in charge of competitions, Paul Mutwii was impressed with the huge turnout in Kisumu and the sprints and field events build-up events in Mumias last weekend. “The turnout is very good. In the men’s 5, 000m, we had a turnout of 84 while in the men’s 100m, we had 12 heats. The women's 100m attracted seven heats. This being the first-weekend meeting, the turnout is impressive,” said Mutwii. He asked athletes keen to represent Kenya in any international event this year to participate in the weekend meetings. “From what I have seen here, we are going to have a very good team representing us in Hungary,” added Mutwii. The next meeting will be at Ruringu Stadium in Nyeri next weekend. 