Former Transport and Water PS Joseph Njoroge paid an emotional tribute to his mother, saying were it not for her, he and his siblings would never have had an education. Njoroge, a seasoned administrator in the Uhuru Kenyatta regime, said education launched them into plum engineering jobs. Ruth Njeri was buried on Friday February 9 in Gatundu South, Kibere village. She died on February 1 at the age of 96. Their father died in 1975. “You brought us up, offered counsel to every one of us, provided us with the best care, showed us the way to participate in spiritual affairs, motivated us to seek God’s way of life with sustained prayers, songs of praise and participation in church work,” Njoroge said of his mother. “We owe our success and all we have to your wisdom and upbringing.” Njoroge, who was a PS in the Ministry of Energy and a CEO of Kenya Power, said he and his brother Prof Bernard Njoroge faced a lot of challenges but they overcame them. But their mother urged them to press on as they tried to make ends meet by working on tea and coffee plantations as well as knocking on doors in search of scholarships. The brothers went on to complete A Levels at Alliance and proceeded to the University of Nairobi, where they both graduated with first class honours in electrical and electronic engineering and civil engineering respectively. Njeri’s burial was attended by Mama Ngina Kenyatta, former Energy CS Charles Keter, former Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua and former Interior PS Karanja Kibicho. Others include former Kiambu Governor James Nyoro, Joyce Ngugi and David Murathe. George Muhoho, former President Uhuru Kenyatta’s uncle, read a heartfelt tribute from Uhuru. Retired AIC Bishop Silas Yego presided over the burial. Njeri was actively involved in the community and contributed resources as well as mobilised people to contribute or volunteer and pool together to build schools and churches. She offered her plot for the construction of a tea buying centre which paved the way for the connection of power to many homes. She also raised cash for the purchase of seats and improvement of AIC Gachika Church. A fundraiser was organised to complete construction of a branch of AIC Church, a stone’s throw from her home, Theta AIC Church. The fundraiser was so successful that the Sh2.5million target was surpassed and Sh10 million realised. As a result, a bigger parcel was acquired to build a more spacious church. By the time of her demise, the church was already off the ground.