Legendary athlete Paul Tergat says his poor performance at the 1992 World Cross Country in Boston, USA, served as an eye-opener which set him on the path to greatness. Speaking on the eve of the 2023 World Cross Country Championships in Bathurst, Australia, Tergat said: “Many people thought I qualified for the 1992 Boston edition by fluke and didn’t deserve a place on the Kenyan team. By then, I was a junior trying to cut a niche in the world of running but I was still misunderstood.” He said a number of factors led to his poor show in that particular edition, especially being his first on the elite level. He said: “Culture shock combined with the weather conditions forced me out.” Tergat says it took three years for him to rediscover who he was before shaping his career as an athlete. “After Boston, it was quite some struggle and it took some time for me to put myself together,” said Tergat, Bathurst 2023 ambassador. The National Olympic Committee of Kenya (NOCK) president says he, later on, proved his critics wrong when he won the World Cross Country Championships in 1995 and followed it up with four other titles at the senior level. He said tough moments should make one better and encouraged athletes competing in Bathurst to be stronger despite the tough terrain and weather conditions. He said the race in Bathurst will not be about individuals but the course and weather. “I think this is one of the toughest and most unique course and it is difficult to predict who will emerge the winner,” he noted. He, however, noted that from his experience, things change all the time in cross country. “We have competed in the cross country under all kinds of weather conditions. It is sometimes muddy, rainy and also under humid conditions as was the case in Mombasa. Therefore, one has to be ready for anything,” he added. He said the athlete who will stay mentally focused throughout the race will carry the day. “I cannot say it will be Ugandan Joshua Cheptegei or Kenya’s Geoffrey Kamworor. The race here boils down to mental toughness and strength,” he noted. He revealed that if one is able to negotiate the twists and turns of cross-country running, it is easy to win any other race including on the road and track. “Cross country taught me how to be patient but at the same time concentrate and stay focused,” he noted. Tergat also went 22 years down the memory lane as he reflected on the 2000 Sydney Olympics. He said Australia, and Sydney in particular, always remind him about his battle in the 10,000m final with Ethiopia’s Haile Gebrselassie. “I am still bite my fingernails whenever I reflect on that race. Remember this was my last race on the track and I wanted to leave on a high. I wanted to win a gold medal before moving off track,” he noted.