The need to protect and conserve Ondago wetlands came after the swampland started losing its natural habitats and size due to human activities. The previously 45 hectares piece has been encroached and now remains on 24.8 hectares. Mzee Eliakim Abeka said the wetland used to be a dwelling place and source of livelihood for various birds like waterfowls, kingfishers, wading birds, shorebirds, cranes and many songbirds. Flamingos would fly from Nakuru to get refuge in Ondago swampland. The 85-year-old man said they used to get mudfish and access water from the wetland. Hippos and reptiles also inhabited the swampland. Ondago wetland extends to Lake Simbi in the Karachuonyo constituency. The presence of birds especially flamingos used to attract local and foreign people and pay some money for a visit. The flamingos formed a white and pink carpet on the lake water surface. Abeka said human activities in the wetland and lake have made them suffer pollution while the birds have migrated to other places. “We nowadays don’t see the importance of the wetlands because we no longer get mudfish and tourists. The government should get ways of bringing it back to its original state,” Abeka said. The national government had classified and gazetted the Ondago wetland as a national bird sanctuary because of the different bird species used to host. According to the National Environment Management Authority, the swamp was gazetted in 1997 when flamingo birds came and settle in the place. The swamp is considered a lash green wetland covered with reeds and other green vegetation. But currently, Ondago is anchoring wilting reeds which are growing from dry soil. Some parts of the wetland which had plenty of water that animals could drink when seasonal rivers are dry up are now dry ground surface cracking from the hot sun. Homa Bay Nema director Josiah Nyandoro said residents are to blame for the negative ecological change at Ondago. He said part of the swamp has encroached and some of the activities by families living at its edge are to blame for its slow death. “The findings we have from the defunct South Nyanza county council reveal that Ondago wetland is under threat due to human activities,” Nyandoro said. Speaking during this year’s world wetland day, Nyandoro warned that the destruction of the Ondago swamp is likely to continue unless residents changed their behaviour. Some residents have encroached on the land and undertaken crop production. Nowadays the wetland gets flooded during the rainy season and gets silted. Ondago can no longer help families which encroached on it because it does not control floods. Nyandoro said they are focusing on sensitization to ensure the protection of wetlands. “The swamp is also used to purify water and preserve flora and fauna. It is no longer providing a micro-climate and maintaining the water table,” he said. Nema wants activities people to engage in activities that do not hurt the environment and enhance wetland conservation. The activities include sustainable harvesting of trees, harvesting of plants for medicinal purposes as well as subsistence farming. Other wetland areas to be protected in Homa Bay include riparian lands along the shores of Lake Victoria. “Part of the plans to restore Ondago is to do pegging to mark boundaries and keep off people who may encroach the area,” he added. Homa Bay-based environmentalist Willis Omullo said the wetland restoration is important as it contributes to biodiversity conservation. “People need to focus on protecting such places for economic livelihood. Conservation of wetlands is also crucial in climate change mitigation measures and adaptation,” Omullo said. Rachuonyo North Deputy County Commissioner Aaron Koross said the government has earmarked the place for planting trees as a way of restoring and conserving the wetland. The exercise will be done by the Nema in collaboration with the Homa Bay government and National Water Harvesting Authority. “Residents would be required to turn up and plant trees whenever they are called upon. Both the national and county government will work together to ensure the wetland is protected,” Koross said.