The Goethe-Institut Nairobi has announced that it is re-opening its spaces with a new and fresh look to the public. This comes after they closed down for 18 months following their extensive refurbishment which entailed adding new spaces and modernizing the existing spaces. According to a release made by the institution, the newly reinvented spaces saw the library, auditorium, and workspaces get a fresh, modern look to make them more welcoming, and interactive and stimulate creativity and interactions. Commenting on the contemporary, multi-purpose spaces, Goethe-Institut Nairobi Director Lilli Kobler said that they had been planning the renovation of the spaces for some time. She said that the Covid 19 lockdown had presented an opportunity for us to make the spaces more functional and user-friendly. “We set out to create a convenient, fun and relaxing environment that will attract a diversity of visitors from all generations to come study, work, meet, exchange, inspire each other and learn new things,” Kobler said. “We are confident that the modernized spaces match the resources we offer and will make The Goethe-Institut Nairobi spaces a go-to location – a calm oasis in the bustling CBD.” She also said that the space aims to be home to the long-standing Kenyan-German cultural and educational relations. It also aims to provide visitors, guests, staff, and diverse projects with innovative and inspiring experiences. The renovated spaces now feature a terrace that offers a wider range of activities. These include a digital corner, Virtual Reality (VR) stations, Gaming Fridays, and a safe and engaging kids section that is geared at nurturing creative talents and encouraging a reading culture from an early age. The library received a facelift and has been fitted with elegant glass walls and transformed into a much larger area. It spills over into the terrace making it easily accessible, functional, and fit for learning and knowledge sharing. Additionally, the library now boasts of a revised stock of books after the Goethe-Institut Nairobi reduced nearly three-quarters of the collection they had and gave them out to universities and museums. Goethe-Institut head of library and information services Lilian Momanyi said that their goal is to remain relevant to customers’ needs. “We undertook a survey to establish the needs of our library users and its findings informed our decisions on what books to keep, weed out, and what to stock particularly in this digital age that has significantly impacted how information is accessed, consumed, stored, and preserved,” Momanyi said. “We are proud that now, our library is not only a place to read books and conduct research.” She added that the space is a versatile, well-equipped environment where people can socialise by attending events, public readings, meetings, and training. To celebrate this milestone, Goethe-Institut Nairobi will be hosting an action-packed three-day reopening event from February 17-19. Dozens of both upcoming and renowned artists are expected to be showcasing their various projects. Works being showcased include a VR project dubbed “The Heritage Museum”. It aims to create awareness about the heritage, history, and importance of Kenya’s displaced artefacts. The audience will also be treated to an exhibition by Jojo Records of specially curated and handpicked vinyl spanning as far back as the 1980s. The Goethe-Institut’s long-standing partner Just A Band will also premiere their new performance film “Echo”. It both looks back at the band's history and showcases their upcoming work, followed by a comeback appearance during a Q&A with fans. All departments of the Goethe-Institut Nairobi will also display their work and facilitate training and workshops for creatives and the broader public with all ages being able to try out the German language. The event will be graced by representatives from the government and the German Embassy. It will coincide with Goethe-Institut Kenya’s 60 years celebration of Kenyan-German cultural relations. The German cultural institute continues To demonstrate its strong commitment to promoting local cultural and educational activities and experiences as well as European and international cultural cooperations.