Rotary club officials Saturday petitioned the government to start providing free health coverage to Kenyans living with disabilities. They said the those living with disability have little income streams to fund their insurance health covers. "If there is a thing that requires priority it is carrying the burden of paying National Health Insurance Fund premiums for them. Those living with disability by virtue of their health status, are greatly limited to generate their income, something that equally needs to be addressed," said Saumu Siraji Rotary Hurlinggum Club chair. The Club official was speaking at Kisii University grounds on Saturday where they hosted disabled children from eight schools across the county. Rotary Club Chapter president, Kisii Chapter, Isabel Lumumba played host. The officials faulted parliament for failing to sufficiently legislate laws that guarantee the disabled a safe landing, especially in regards to protecting their basic fundamental rights. Siraj further encouraged society to show those living with disability love and provide them with opportunities to expand their career potential. She further urged parents with children living with disabilities not to lock them away from the outside world and instead seek professional help. Siraj said there is also an urgent need that more schools get established to cater for children with disabilities. Some of those existing, she said, are not adequately equipped thus limiting the h learners from attaining the requisite skills and knowledge. "This is an area that I urge Kenyans to explore. Investing in schools and health facilities can greatly leverage the government's effort to better these people's lives," said Siraj. Lumumba, on her part, raised concern about the increasing cases of sexual harassment cases among children with disabilities. She said some of the cases rarely get reported because the perpetrators are close family members. "We appeal to our people to increase surveillance and if possible report the perpetrators to security personnel. We must stop this vice if we are to give these people a decent life," she told journalists.