Thunder will be in focus as they return to action against top guns in this weekend's Kenya National Basketball League (KNBL) matches. Sadat Gaya's side will grind it against Ulinzi Warriors in their own backyard at Lang'ata Sports Complex on Saturday.  They also meet leaders of Equity Bank Dumas at United States International University (USIU). Relegation doomed Zetech University Titans, who repelled ANU 62-59, come face to face with Strathmore University Blades who came from behind to defeat Umoja 59-47. The two giants, who are on 30 points each, are coming off impressive weekend wins. The soldiers shot down the University of Nairobi University 'Terrorists' 89-71 and the bankers ripped Africa Nazarene University (ANU) 'Wolfpacks' 90-45. “So far, our training is not bad. We will have a good fight. We were worse off when we returned for training. Now we are not where we want to be but getting there,” said Gaya adding, “It will give us good focus as we approach the playoffs.” Relegation-bound Titans, who repelled ANU 62-59, come face to face against the upbeat Strathmore University Blades who came from behind to defeat Umoja 59-47. “Playing a team that is struggling is always tricky and I expect my players to play a normal game and avoid their comfort zone. I expect to make a few changes in squad management. Focus and right decision-making will be key for the two points,” offered Blades coach Tony Ochieng. Umoja hope that the ever-dangerous guard Moses Alier will continue with his hot shooting streak in this must-win encounter against Eldonets Platinum whose points-getter Tyson Ongwae is beaming with confidence. “We are well prepared for the two games. These are tough matches since Umoja already won at our place and Zetech played really well in the first leg, so we must be locked in for us to win the two games,” said Ongwae. In the women's tie, Kenyatta University “Oryx” tackle UoN Dynamites with both teams coming off losses. KU went down 63-54 to Eldonets away while UoN went down 49-43 to Africa Nazarene University. On Sunday, Eldoret sides wind up their two-game tour of the city with matches against Eagle Wings and Eldonets in the ladies' category as Eldonets play Zetetch University Titans. 