A police officer was Monday evening killed in an accident involving a motorist in Mombasa. This is after the motorist trapped the officer’s hand and drove off with his body hanging for almost 200 meters. The officer was later run over by the rear wheel of the same car and died on the spot. Police said the officer was manning Buxton Junction in Mombasa at about 4.30 pm when the incident happened. He and his colleagues flagged down a salon car for normal traffic inspection. The area usually experiences heavy traffic jam at that time. The driver was then asked to switch off the engine to enable the officers to check his car. According to police, the driver declined to switch off the engine prompting the officer to try to open the driver’s door to turn off the ignition key. Police who were present said it was then that the driver allegedly grabbed the officer's hand and tried to pull him into his car. He then engaged a gear and accelerated with the officer hanging outside and dragged him for almost 200 meters. The officer hung on the car as the driver sped off before he fell on the tarmac. It was then that the rear right wheel of the car ran over Marwa injuring him on the head. Police said he also had multiple injuries before he was rushed to Jocham hospital where he was pronounced dead. The driver sped off but was later traced to the basement of a parking lot. Police said he was found locked in the car and later arrested. Coast regional police boss Titus Karuri said they are investigating the motive of the incident. He said his officers were interrogating the suspect for more information to establish the motive. Police said they are investigating a case of murder in the incident and want to establish if the man had premeditated it. The car was later towed to Makupa police station for further police action. “We don’t know the motive for now and such actions send a bad signal,” said another senior officer in the area. Teams of police were planning to search the driver’s house for more information. Last week, a traffic officer was robbed of his rifle while on duty in Muranga. Efforts to recover the weapon are ongoing.