Hit Squad head coach Benjamin Musa has tipped the women's team to make the country proud at the IBA World Boxing Championships in New Delhi, India on March 14-24. In an exclusive interview on Sunday as the squad commenced their second week of training at their non-residential training camp in Nairobi's Mathare Depot, Musa said he is happy with the progress made. "The amount of training that has gone into our current preparations makes me happy. Each of our fighters is committed to making the journey, as evidenced by the tenacity they have shown over the previous week," Musa said. The seasoned tactician will be counting on his star-studded team to propel the nation to the medal podium and outperform the lacklustre showing posted the previous year. Elizabeth Andiego, who won silver at the Africa Boxing Championships, is at the top of the 13-strong list of skilled fighters enlisted, which also includes bantamweight Elizabeth Akinyi and cruiserweight Christine Ongare, both of whom represented the country at the 2020 Tokyo Olympics. "The majority of the boxers we sent to training camp have the required skills to compete at this level. We put on a respectable showing at the Africa Boxing Championship in Maputo, Mozambique, and I think we all want to keep improving," added Musa. Musa, who also serves as the Boxing Federation of Kenya (BFK) national treasurer, declared that they would not hold back in their quest to restore the country's once-proud status as a boxing superpower. The nation's boxing fans will be crossing their fingers in the hopes of a face-saving performance that will make up for the heartache felt by the Kenyan women who returned from Turkey empty-handed last year. "The championships in Istanbul, Turkey, last year provided us with some invaluable insights. When they try again in Delhi, I think those of us who were present will find the lessons to be helpful," observed Musa. "In recent months, our women have made significant progress. With every competition, their abilities and strategy have gotten better. Effective systems are currently in place to guarantee a consistent stream of female boxers joining the national squad." Women's boxing in the nation has a bright future, according to Musa, as many aspiring athletes have recently displayed interest in the sport. "Many women in the country are showing a lot of interest in boxing, as evidenced by the ballooning number of participants in local leagues, particularly during the most recent competition," he said.