President William Ruto has hit back at the Azimio la Umoja brigade saying the government will not be intimidated by their ultimatums. Speaking on Wednesday during the launch of the Nairobi River Commission in Korogocho, Nairobi, Ruto said the cost of living will gradually go down and not within days as Azimio wants. "Kwa hivyo hawa jamaa watulize boli. Ati wanataka kututisha na maandamo, watafanya maandano mpaka watachoka," the President said. Ruto said Kenya is a country that is going to be run on the basis of the rule of law and the Constitution where all citizens have equal rights. He said he will ensure in his capacity as President that nobody threatens Kenyans with impunity. "Everybody must respect the law and this country is going to be governed by the rule of law and we will make sure that everybody obeys the Constitution," he said. Azimio leader Raila Odinga issued a 14-day ultimatum for the government to lower the cost of living or face mass action. "We came here as seekers of truth and defenders of justice. We are seekers and defenders of electoral justice, and social and economic justice. We pray that this may be firmly planted in the soils of our country," Rail said during the Azimio prayer rally at Jevanjee gardens. The former Prime Minister said that the failure of the Kenya Kwanza administration to stabilise the cost of basic commodities within the two-week period will see the Opposition stage anti-government demonstrations. "We’ve talked about the rising cost of basic commodities like unga, electricity, fuel, sugar and milk among others for far too long. We have complained about rising taxes and talked about children dropping out of school for lack of fees," Raila said. He said the withdrawal of subsidies on food and education in the middle of a ravaging drought and famine was reckless and heartless. "Consequently, the subsidies must be restored, and the cost of basic commodities and taxes must come down in the next 14 days." But the president was categorical in his response saying nobody was going to be threatened by impunity under his watch. "I want to tell our friends who are used to impunity, who are used to forcing their way because this is going to be a country based on the rule of law and nobody is going to threaten Kenyans," Ruto said. If anything, the president pointed out that the Azimio leadership was in the previous government via the handshake and is responsible for the high cost of living. "You had five years, the cost of unga rose to Sh230, we have reduced it to Sh180. Let them give us the time it will come to Sh140," Ruto said. "Wawache kimbelembele walikuwa na nafasi yao wakaharibu." In his response to Raila's demands for the opening of IEBC servers, the head of state said the country is past the election period and anybody wishing to engage on that matter must wait until the next general election in 2027. "Mambo ya viongozi na uchaguzi tulimaliza mwezi wa nane. Ile kazi tumebakinayo sasa ni ya wananchi hawa. 2027 ni miaka mitano ijayo, sasa tunataka kuonge mambo ya hawa wanachi ya leo, ya kesho na kesho kutwa mpaka ifike siku hiyo," he said.