The Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) has said that former Interior CS Fred Matiang'i did not file a complaint to the police regarding the alleged home raid. In a statement on Wednesday, DCI boss Mohamed Amin said that there has been significant progress in the ongoing investigations. "After a comprehensive investigation, the DCI has determined that no complaint has been made at any police station regarding the alleged raid," Amin said. He said that they have recorded statements from the VIP police deployed to Matiang'i's residence on the night in question. There were also statements recorded from the private security company guarding the property. Amin said they have established ownership of a Subaru car, KDK 488L that was captured entering the home of the former CS. "We have since established that the vehicle belongs to Inter Management Group Limited and was at the time being driven by Peter Gacheru," he said. "Gacheru is one of the directors at the Inter Management Group Limited and is a neighbour to the former CS at the Karen Ngong View Estate which is a gated community." Gacheru's advocate Kethi Kilonzo confirmed the ownership details in a letter to DCI complete with current copies of the insurance and logbook. Amin said they are probing allegations made by lawyers who held a meeting with Matiang'i before the complaint was lodged on live TV. He said it includes a claim that there were 200 lawyers surrounding the former CS to shield him from the police officers. "This afternoon, our officers obtained a search order to obtain CCTV recordings from the home of the former interior CS to establish the facts surrounding the alleged home raid," Amin said. He said they will take action if any officers from any security agency were involved in any unauthorized activities or if any false information was knowingly disseminated by anyone to the public. "We take all allegations seriously and will continue to work diligently to bring the truth to light," DCI boss said.