The owner of a restaurant in Thika where former Juja MP George Thuo collapsed has denied any involvement in his death. Paul wanaina told trial Judge Roselyn Korir that Thuo was a worried man. He was worried about the ICC cases in which former president Uhuru Kenyatta had been indicted with post-election ethnic violence in 2007-08, in which 1200 people died. Wainaina said Thuo mentioned to him that he 'didn't know what was going to happen after the cases were over." The businessman did not elaborate on the details of the conversation. He said Thuo did not like to delve deeply into the issue but he mentioned he was to be a key witness for former President Uhuru. Thuo became the the eighth ICC insider to die. Wanaina alias Sheki, Christopher Lumbazio, Andrew Karanja, Samuel Kuria Ngugi, Esther Ndinda Mulinge and Ruth Watahi Irungu were two weeks ago placed on their defense by Judge Korir over Thuo's murder. The court found that they have a case to answer after the prosecution called 30 witnesses to testify against them. Wanaina was the first to defend himself on Tuesday saying he and Thuo were good friends since childhood and he had no motive to poison him. He said on the fateful day, Thuo visited Porkies Restaurant in Thika. He called Wanaina at around 7.30 pm saying he wanted to come and watch formula 1. They met at around 8.45 pm. But Thuo had passed by somewhere else and had a drink before finally proceeding to Porkies. Plans to have a witness from the unnamed place where Thuo visited to come and testify on behalf of the defense are underway. Back at Porkies, Thuo, Wanaina and some of the other accused persons converged at a table chatting about formula 1. There was no special sitting arrangement for the then MP. Wanaina was having coffee and Thuo was having a Heineken beer. But fifteen minutes later, Thuo started feeling hot. He asked the rest whether they were feeling the same but they were not. He then told Wanaina that it would be best if he removed his vest. He had a light shirt, a trouser and the vest which was beneath. Wanaina directed Thuo to his office where he managed to remove the vest and took it to his car. All this while, Wanaina was at the kitchen counter. Thuo was on his own when he took the vest to his car. He came back and they continued chatting about formula 1. Ten minutes later, Thuo collapsed. Doctors who have testified in the case said Thuo was poisoned and died from excessive bleeding. An emotional Wanaina had a difficult time composing himself as he narrated the last moments he shared with his friend. Wanaina participated in Thuo's political campaigns and also in his marriage arrangements. But Thuo would later separate from his wife before the incident happened. Asked whether he knew of any serious issues the two had, Wanaina said efforts to be supplied with Safaricom call data that would help determine some aspects of the case have been unsuccessful. Thuo died on the night of November 17, 2013. Detectives believe the cause of death to have been caused by a toxic chemical that was mixed with his drink. Six suspects including Thuo's bosom friends are in court for the murder. They are currently at the stage of defending themselves. The case resumes on Wednesday.