Former Defence CS Eugene Wamalwa has castigated President William Ruto for harassing former First Lady Mama Ngina Kenyatta over taxes. The former CS said there is a lot that needs to be fought but Ruto has misdirected his energy to fight to the former First Lady. "You promised to fight to lessen the cost of living if elected President. We want you to stop targeting Mama Ngina Kenyatta," he said. "Badala ya kupigana na Mama Ngina, pigana na njaa ili bei ya chakula ishuke, pigania wazazi karo ya shule ishuke (Instead of fighting Mama Ngina, fight hunger for cost of food to go down, fight for affordable school fees)." Wamalwa pointed out that other African countries have over the years respected their former First Ladies and wondered why the Kenya Kwanza regime was disrespecting Mama Ngina. "What kind of a country are we to disrespect such an honourable woman as Mama Ngina?" he asked. "If I were Leonard Mambo Mbotela I'd ask... Je huu ni ungwana? Ruto wachana na Mama Ngina." On Monday last week, Ruto said some people who wielded power in the past used state instruments to exempt themselves from paying taxes. He, however, did not mention any names but his remarks appeared directed at the the Kenyatta family. He said going forward, he will not allow tax exemption under his watch. "The good people who were used to exempting themselves from paying tax, their days are up," Ruto said. On Saturday, Mama Ngina who rarely makes public statements responded to the apparent tax onslaught from the Ruto regime. While speaking at Tewa Catholic Church in Lamu, Mama Ngina regretted that politicians were peddling lies to tarnish other people's names so as to be seen to be working. “Paying taxes is a must whether you are big or small. People must pay taxes according to their income,” she said. She pointed out that tax matters should be addressed through established legal processes, if need be,saying public rallies have no place in matters taxation. She further dared the government to auction her property to settle any perceived tax debt if it is indeed true that she has not been paying her taxes. "If it is me who has not paid for even a single year let my property be auctioned to pay that tax because it is a must. There is no need for politicking. It is not true that I have not paid tax and people know they are not saying the truth". On Sunday, Ruto appeared to answer her back when he said it's good that the rich are in agreement that everyone must pay taxes.