Agriculture Principal Secretary Kello Harsama has said there is a maize shortage globally and local importers are going as far as Mozambique, Zambia and South Africa. The importers are purchasing a 90kg bag of maize at between Sh4,200 and Sh5,000. He said so far, more than 50 importers have been licensed to import maize and the grain may take long to get to the country due to scarcity of the commodity in the market. Harsama told the Star during an interview that traditional maize import destinations for Kenya are currently experiencing low maize stock due to climate change challenges. The PS said countries like Ethiopia, Zambia, Malawi, Tanzania and Uganda used to have surplus and ready market but these countries have also been affected by climate change and they do not have any maize. “South Africa is the only country with maize stocks remaining in Africa and many countries are now scrambling for commodity South Africa. We are likely to have a challenge with maize arriving in time due to availability in the market,” he said. Harsama further said the maize shortage is not only a Kenyan crisis but it is also being felt in regional and international market. He said traditional maize import destinations for Kenya like Uganda, Tanzania, Malawi and Zambia are currently experiencing low maize stock due to drought. The PS said countries in the Comesa region are rationing their exports so that they can be able to feed their own population with the little stocks they have. Harsama further said countries like Ethiopia, Zambia, Malawi, Tanzania and Uganda used to have surplus and ready market but this has been affected by drought. Millers have raised concern that a delay of maize imports could lead to an increase in the price of maize flour in the country. United Grain Millers Association chairman Ken Nyaga said the current maize shortage in the country could lead to a price increase in maize flour. Currently a two-kilo packet of maize flour is retailing at between Sh170-Sh200 depending on the brand. Millers are buying a 90kg bag of white at between Sh4,700 and Sh5,300 compared to between Sh5,300 and Sh5, 400 price imported at Mombasa port. “There have been a problem in sourcing for the commodity and the situation may get worse if the government does not act fast. Those traders and millers that have been licensed to bring in maize, should do so immediately to save the situation,” Nyaga said. 