Marsabit traders who have not started making use of their respective stalls at the Saku modern market have been given a 14-day notice to do so or surrender their stalls to pave way for others. In a press briefing, Municipal board manager Boru Golicha Gababo said the notice was agreed upon by board members. "You are hereby notified that you are currently in violation of clause 2.3 of the agreement for failing to occupy the stall allocated to you. Failure to occupy and utilize the stall defeats the purpose and intent of the construction of the same," read part of the statement "14-day notice is hereby served to show cause against eviction and reallocation of the stalls." Gababo said beneficiaries must obey the terms and conditions for use of stalls and spaces that they dully signed. According to the agreement, if a trader failed to develop space it is reallocated. He urged roadside hawkers to take up the space saying the market is at 80 per cent occupied. "We have used millions of money to construct modern markets which are located at convenient places. We do not want to see people selling things on the road abandoning the government market," Said Boru The municipal boss said the traders whose temporary structures were gutted down by the fire and whose stalls were demolished to pave way for the construction of the market were given priority in the allocation of spaces within the market. The three-storey market which was constructed at a cost of Sh425 million has about 480 stalls. The construction started in 2015. The county government is expected to generate over Sh1.5 million in monthly revenue from the market, translating to  Sh17 million annually. The modern market has a parking space, washrooms, proper lighting, a mosque and a creche for babies. Gababo assured traders that the county remains committed to transforming the lives of micro and small enterprises by providing them with better places. The municipal boss said governor Mohamud-led administration is concerned about the traders and will continue to empower and provide them with a conducive working environment for business. He advised business people to pay taxes to enable the county to finance its planned activities. He noted that enhanced tax collection will enable the government to efficiently and effectively deliver services to its citizens. The secretary Marsabit municipal board said the government had gone out of its way to provide facilities to the business community and they also need to own their responsibility by paying taxes. He urged traders who are yet to obtain their business licences from Marsabit municipal to apply before March 31 to avoid enforcement action. He said the municipality will implement the business legalisation process thereafter and there will be no compromise. "There will be no more compromises for traders without a valid licence after that period," he said The board member Alex Ali Guleid insisted that the business people must occupy the stalls or give way for others to do their business. He said there will be no extension of the 14 periods given and the traders need to comply and take up their spaces. The county government of Marsabit through the Kenya Urban Support program had begun the construction of ink roads and a drainage system which is at advanced stages in the town to enhance the need for requisite amenities to promote investments. According to the municipal boss, Governor Mohamud's administration has been at the forefront of making sure there are structures that will benefit residents in urban areas. Most of the traders have however opted to sell their merchandise in open spaces as opposed to using stalls built by the county. Those who spoke to the Star claim the location of the stalls doesn't attract customers. Since I started operating in an open place, customers can see my items and I have been making sales," said Halima