Kikuyu council of elders has supported Raila  Odinga's call for demonstrations’ noting that it’s his constitutional right but they must be peaceful. Speaking to Star on Thursday, council chairman Wachira Kiago said if Raila will continue holding demos, he must ensure that they aren’t confrontational and destructive. Wachira said that Raila supporters should not take advantage of the demonstrations and they should refrain from acts of thuggery and violence. “Democracy has no room for violence and thus Raila and his supporters should ensure law and order are adhered to,” Kiago said. He said that the council won’t support any demonstration if it will disrupt peace and order. “We won’t support Raila if his supporters will engage in violence but what we can say is that anyone has a right to demonstrate,” Kiago noted. The council had earlier declared support for William Ruto and his deputy Rigathi Gachagua. UDA legal secretary and Gatanga MP Edward Muriu said that the Kenya Kwanza government is intact and ready to serve the people of Kenya. Muriu said that Raila Odinga should carry out his opposition duties peacefully without intimidating anyone and using blackmail. “We won’t fall into Raila's trap of engaging in a handshake with him as he did in the last regime. We are fully behind William Ruto and Rigathi Gachagua and they should be given time to deliver on their campaign promises,” Muriu said. Odinga has been facing huge setbacks in his latest anti-government campaign after some of his close allies, especially governors, rejected the mass action call. Odinga has demanded that President William Ruto resigns, insisting that the latter is in office illegally. Former Mukurwe-ini MP Kabando WA Kabando on his Twitter account expressed support for Raila Odinga but urged them to play the opposition role peacefully. “I'll steadfastly support my party leader Martha Karua and opposition leader Raila Odinga in zealous oversight of Ruto's regime. But I vehemently reject the politics of deception. Azimio 'alumni' must admit delusions of the so-called deep state system delivering a victory for baba,” Kabando said. President William Ruto recently told the media that he won’t fall into Odinga’s plan for a handshake. The Head of State was reacting to Odinga’s fresh allegations that the vote was rigged to deny him victory, citing unverified information from an alleged IEBC whistleblower. Ruto vowed he will not yield to blackmail and ruled out a truce with Odinga along the lines of the ODM leader’s handshake in 2018 with former President Uhuru Kenyatta following the disputed 2017 elections.