Some Garissa leaders on Friday called on the security organs to act and restore sanity following the run away insecurity. The leaders who included Garissa Township MP Dekow Mohamed, Township MCA Hussein Dakane and his Iftin counterpart Mustapha Abdirashid took issue with the rising cases of mugging, stabbing, house break-ins  and phone snatching. Speaking at Iftin during a food distribution exercise courtesy of the KCB, the leaders regretted that it had taken the security organs long to arrest the situation. Recently, a prominent business woman known as Khadija Farah popularly known by her alias, 'Madonge', was stabbed to death by armed criminals who were riding on a motorbike . The knife wielding criminal accosted her at around 7pm while she was waiting for her gate to be opened. They stabbed her several times and stole unknown amount of money. She died while being taken to hospital. Several Boda boda operators have also been stabbed while others have had their motorbikes stolen. Barrow said time has come for security officers to carry out a massive crackdown on the criminals, arrest them and subject them to the rule of law. "We are not living in a jungle law. We have a government and security officers who are paid by the taxpayers money to make sure the lives and property of Kenyans are protected." He added, "We cannot have a situation where a few criminals are having a field day and making the lives of our people extremely difficult. As we speak, our mothers cannot even go about their business over fears being attacked," he said. He however warned the security apparatus against enforced disappearance saying anyone found culpable of any wrong doing should be taken through the court process. Township MCA urged parents to work closely with police in order to ensure security is restored. Dakane called for increased police patrol within the town and its environs noting that they will go along way in improving security. “I also want to tell our parents that you equally have a role to play in ensuring the much needed peace and security is achieved by reporting your own children who are involved in this criminal activities.” He added, “Let us not protect our children even when we know very well that they are involved in crimes, the same person will one day turn against you and it will too late.” Garissa subcounty police commander James Ngetich while calling on the residents to help the police by sharing the relevant information, said tough action will be taken against the perpetrators.     -Edited by SKanyara