Jubilee secretary general Jeremiah Kioni has warned the government against using retired president Uhuru Kenyatta as a diversion. Speaking on Friday, Kioni said the President William Ruto-led administration is using Uhuru to distract Kenyans from the real issue, being the increase in their living standards. "They must stop using the former Head of State as part of their diversionary tactics," he said during a Jubilee press conference. "They have clearly failed to manage the affairs of this country and they are using every opportunity they can imagine to divert the attention of Kenyans," the SG added. Kioni regretted that the government has kept mum on the tax reforms that have overburdened Kenyans. On Wednesday, Water Resources Authority announced a new implementation in water levies that will see water businesses pay Sh5 for every 1,000 litres sold. This is a rise from the previous Sh50 cents. Weighing in on this, Kioni said it was an unthinkable thing to do. "Hata wakati wa campaign hatukufikiria unaeza fikiria kuongeza bei ya maji (Even during the campaign period, we never thought you'd resort to hiking water prices). You know ideally, you should be providing water for free," he said. The former Ndaragwa MP further said the government should give a proper explanation of its agenda with the increased taxes. In January, National Treasury, through the Kenya Revenue Authority proposed to increase stamp duty on luxurious items including cigarettes, liquor and cosmetics, and fruit juices. The move to increase the excise duty is in response to Ruto's directive to KRA, to double its revenue collection from Sh2.1 trillion to more than Sh4 trillion. According to the Kenya Association of Manufacturers, the proposed increment shall have a detrimental effect on consumers and manufacturers. In the proposals published by KRA, Treasury CS Njuguna Ndungu said stamp duty on cigarettes containing tobacco, electronic cigarettes, liquid nicotine for electronic cigarettes and other nicotine delivery services will be Sh5, up from the current Sh2.8. He said stamp duty on fruit and vegetable juices, whether or not they contain added sugar or sweeteners will be charged at Sh2.2 per stamp up from the current Sh0.6. The stamp duty applies to other non-alcoholic beverages except bottled water whose stamp duty will be retained at Sh0.5. Ndungu however, said the excise tax on cosmetics and beauty products will be increased from the current Sh0.6 to Sh2.5.