At the age of 26, Biasha Hamisi Zito is already a manager holding an office that carries great responsibilities in Kwale county. Biasha is the Community Development Agreement Committee manager, where she oversees crucial office operations. CDAC was formed in 2021 by Australian mining firm Base Titanium to fulfil the 2016 Mining Act that requires mining firms to set aside certain funds to benefit communities affected by mining projects. The firm gives one per cent of its total annual revenue for development through CDAC. To get the position, Biasha had to go through a rigorous selection and interview process. She got the job in November 2021. She said coming from a humble background was enough motivation to set her priorities right. "I'm a go-getter. I worked hard to be where I am today," she said. Biasha said her childhood life was not rosy and she spent most of it out of school for lack of fees. Her father worked at the beach and the income was not stable. The mother was a housewife. Biasha said when she was in primary school, her grandmother was sickly and most of the money her father earned was channelled to her medication. Her grandmother later died. She scored 340 marks in the KCPE exam at the Kenya Assembly of God School in Msambweni. She then joined Matuga Girls in Kwale. She almost dropped out of high school due to lack of school fees but her parents managed to see her through secondary education. Biasha's scored an A-minus in her KCSE exam. She later pursued a Bachelor of Science degree in mining and mineral processing engineering at Taita Taveta university. Biasha is a beneficiary of Elimu Ni Sasa and Base Titanium scholarship programmes. "The first year Base Titanium paid my fees and later the county took over and in the final years, they reduced the fees to half. My parents paid the rest," she said. She recently enrolled for a masters course at the same university. Biasha said being a manager at her age is not easy but she has learned to live with the challenges and bring the best out of them. She said some undermine her because she is a woman and young. "I normally tell people, being here is not a favour but it's because I am competent. I wasn't installed but I fought for this post," she said. Biasha reports to the CDAC chairperson and secretary and she manages the administration funds, settles disputes, handles communications and acts as a link between investors, the community and the CDAC committee. She acquired managerial skills from Kwale Youth Assembly and from several civil society organisations that she worked with before landing the manager job. Biasha said her husband is supportive and he is proud of her achievements.