AFC Leopards head coach, Patrick Aussems, is in hot water after allegedly making derogatory comments to a reporter in a post-match interview following their goalless draw with Nzoia Sugar on Sunday at Nyayo Stadium. Trouble began when the journalist enquired about Aussems' continued presence on the pitch after the match official dashed to the Leopards' bench and flashed a red card. Unbeknownst to the journalist, Lawrence Webo, the goalie coach, was actually the one who had been asked to take an early shower. This was after Webo expressed dissatisfaction to the match commissioner following a string of contentious infractions against Leopards players. Instead of calmly correcting the journalist, Aussems let loose with a storm of abuse that left the media bewildered. "You, my friend, are stupid because Webo received the red card, not me. So, you are illiterate. Let me see your name so that you may not ask any further questions," the coach responded. Later, Aussems made disparaging remarks about the four on-duty officials on his official Twitter page, labeling them all as "clowns." The Football Kenya Federation's CEO, Barry Otieno, declared that Aussem's activities were the subject of an investigation. Otieno claimed that an investigation over the Belgian tactician's remarks had been opened by the national football governing authority. "We are investigating it and will set a deadline for a decision after speaking with the coach as well. We are keenly reviewing all of the information and, hopefully, we shall have concluded the case within the next few days,  Otieno said. Otieno further requested Sports Journalists Association of Kenya (SJAK) to pursue the matter in the interest of its members. "I think SJAK should also raise the issue." The chief of marketing and communications for the FKF, Pharis Kimaru, acknowledged that the federation had opened an investigation into the ugly incident. "The matter has been referred to the relevant FKF Disciplinary Committee chaired by Charles Njenga for determination," Kimaru confirmed. The video that captured the incident has since gone viral on social media. It is not the first time Aussems is finding himself in the eye of the storm this season. Following a spate of lackluster performances that have left the club fighting relegation, furious Leopards supporters have been calling on the embattled Belgian manager to resign from his position.