Former Mukuruweini MP Kabando wa Kabando has hit out at Suna East MP Junet Mohamed saying his conduct made the Azimio Leader Raila Odinga lose some votes. Kabando on Monday took a swipe at the legislator saying it was a political blunder for him to MC some Azimio campaigns in the  Mt Kenya region. The former MP was reacting to Junet Mohamed's clarification on utterances he made ahead of the August 9, polls. "Baba akishinda serikali ni yetu watu ya Nyanza. Sitaki watu wa gazeti wasikie iyo Mutahi Kagwe anaweza kasirika. Si nyinyi mlikuwa nayo mwaka ishirini na kadhaliki. Sasa safari hii ni watu ya Nyanza," Junet said at a rally in Kisii. This loosely translates to: "If Baba wins, the governments belong to us, the people of Nyanza. I don't want the 'newspaper people to hear that, lest the former Health CS Mutahi Kagwe does too and gets angry. You had it for more than 20 years. It's Nyanza's turn now." The utterances became the basis of Junet's backlash on Monday after he attacked DP Rigathi Gachagua for comparing the government to a company where major shareholders reap big and first. But in his defence, Junet said that was a campaign language. "You talk this way when you are campaigning and looking for votes but when you get it, the game changes and you become the leader of all," Junet defended himself. Kabando, however, disagreed with him saying: "Jatelo Jatenda Jarateng' (My boss, my leader, my master ) Junet, no, you don't do this. That was a negative campaign, negative politics, and it cost Baba some votes/goodwill." "When you are down, stop kicking. When in a hole, stop digging deeper. Truth is, even your being MC in our Mt Kenya Campaigns wasn't smart," he said. Junet has been on the receiving of blame from a section of Azimio leaders who claim he had a big role in Raila's failure. In January, former Raila's chief agent Saitabao Kanchory said Junet was among those "highly" responsible for the loss. "We could not have lost this election if it weren't for three people. The first one is Junet Mohamed, the second is Joe Mucheru and the third is Makau Mutua. These are people I have worked with and respect but in terms of responsibility, they take the highest responsibility," he said on NTV.