The death toll from banditry attacks in the North Rift has risen to more than 40 people in one month amid mounting pressure on the government to act tough and stop killings in the region. Those killed include seven police officers, among them two police reservists. In the latest attack, four police officers were among 10 people who lost their lives in a bandit attack in Kaakong on the Kitale-Lodwar highway in Turkana county on Friday. At least 12 other people, including seven police officers, are still admitted to the hospital with multiple bullet injuries. A subcounty police commander is among the injured. The attackers also burnt two police vehicles after looting. The officers were on patrol on the highway Friday evening when they were ambushed near the KWS camp in Kaakong, police said. Last week five people including two police reservists were shot dead in Samburu county. Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Wesley Roich said 25 people had lost their lives within the Kerio Valley in the last month. “We are asking the government to send in all the necessary support so that our security teams can effectively deal with the bandits”, Rotich said. Interior CS Kithure Kindiki is camping in the region for a series of security meetings following a directive by President William Ruto. Kindiki has been holding a series of strategy meetings with security teams to put in place an action plan that will deal a blow to banditry activities that have mainly affected Elgeyo Marakwet, Baringo, West Pokot, Samburu and Turkana counties. There are fears that schools in affected areas may be shut down due to rising tensions and fears of revenge attacks. After a tour of the Kerio Valley region to assess the situation, Catholic Bishop of Eldoret Dominic Kimengich is calling for reinforcement of security teams in the region to protect residents. “The situation is critical and people are living in abject poverty and fear for their lives. Something has to be done urgently so that people are protected from the bandits,” Kimengich said. Kimengich is calling for an end to banditry attacks in Kerio Valley urging those with illegal arms to surrender them and embrace peace. Kimengich said leaders from the affected counties should also come together and dialogue on how to restore peace in the region. He says insecurity has affected lives in the region, paralysing education and all other development activities. He said the church will also help in efforts to restore peace. The government and leaders should use alternative means in resolving banditry conflicts in Kerio Valley where families rely on livestock for livelihoods. Kimengich said there was a need to change the lifestyles of communities in the region so that they can engage in other forms of business and agriculture along with embracing education to improve lives. The clergyman says banditry has ravaged lives in the region where many people live unstable lives in abject poverty due to insecurity.