On Sunday, the 92nd edition of the Mashemeji derby took place at the Nyayo Stadium. Both Gor Mahia and AFC Leopards upheld their reputation as the country's traditional top-flight giants in a thrilling match filled with fireworks. After all the hype surrounding the derby, the barren outcome may not have pleased many local football fans. However, there is one particular development that proved to be a big success. The stadium was not as deserted as in previous years given local football fans from all corners of the country thronged the stands to witness the epic duel. This was likely due to the high level of excitement surrounding the match, as it was between two of the most successful teams in the league. Fans had been eagerly anticipating the clash for weeks and so they made the trip to the stadium to show their support. But, once again, it wasn't obvious that fans would swarm the stands. After all, local football matches have been played in front of empty stadia for years. A variety of explanations have been advanced to rationalise the declining attendance at our stadia during local football matches. The run-of-the-mill justification has been the 'low quality' of football displayed by local teams in comparison to what other clubs offer in more established foreign platforms such as the English Premier League. To address this issue, local clubs must find ways to attract cutting-edge players and coaches in order to spice up the game and send the stands ecstatic. This obviously necessitates deep pockets. But, given the scarcity of sponsors, where else will they generate revenue if not from gate collections? We must begin attending games in order to supplement the meagre income of local clubs. Rather than focusing on foreign leagues, we need to redirect our attention and enthusiasm towards domestic leagues if we hope to advance. Another deterrent factor has always been outbreaks of violence, particularly during the Mashemeji derby, the country's most cherished and hyped football showpiece. People grew tired of being caught up in running battles between anti-riot police and rowdy fans protesting contentious refereeing decisions. Marketing strategies are also inadequate. The Football Kenya Federation (FKF) and clubs from across the country must now make good use of social media to market their products. There is always some magic involved in hyping sporting events across board. For example, a boisterous Tanzanian pugilist Karim Mandonga rekindled interest in the sport by almost single-handedly promoting his own fight in Kenya. Mandonga was able to pique the interest of many Kenyan boxing fans and rally them to attend his fight. Since landing a few days before the fight, the boxer, known for his hyperactivity and loudmouth, had been doing rounds around Nairobi to hype the event. Those in charge of promoting sports in the country should take a leaf out of his book. Until adequate measures are put in place to attract more fans to stadiums, corporate entities that are expected to sponsor leagues and teams will always be hesitant. Suffice it to say, the contribution of well-wishers and such organisations is critical to ensuring a consistent inflow of cash, particularly for community clubs that have struggled to make ends meet.