Form One intake in Mombasa is expected to hit 78 per cent by Friday this week as students began reporting to school on Monday. This is according to Mombasa county director of education Peter Magiri who said the process began smoothly across the region. Magiri said that the high intake rate expected is a result of several students getting sponsorship from several financial institutions and organizations. “I was at Shimo la Tewa High School, and they had recorded almost 50 per cent turnout on day one, reports from subcounty directors of education also indicate that the numbers are very impressive,” Magiri said. “In terms of percentage, we are expecting the turnout to be about 78 per cent because of the scholarship parents have received from various institutions including Equity’s Wings to Fly, KCB and other NGOs. Mombasa governor has also hinted that he will issue bursaries soon.” About 12,000 pupils sat for the 2022 Kenya Certificate of Primary Education in Mombasa. Countrywide, over 1.23 million children sat for the exams and began reporting to schools in line with the government’s 100 per cent transition initiative. Magiri said that the challenge in Mombasa was that the 53 public secondary schools spread across the county can take about 8,000 pupils only. “The government already took care of this by allocating the extra 4,000 learners to schools outside the county, we can safely say that all our children in Mombasa will go to school,” Magiri said. Only two schools in Mombasa, which are Shimo la Tewa High School (boys) and Mama Ngina Girls High School have boarding facilities. Others including Moi Forces Academy in Likoni, Changamwe Secondary School and Joho Girls are partially boarding with the rest serving as day schools. Parents and guardians taking children to school had complained of the high cost of living, saying it had made it difficult for them to meet most of the school requirements. Many of them, whose children have been called to boarding schools, have now opted to send them to public day schools. Saumu Awadh, one of the parents who accompanied her child to report at Changamwe Secondary School said that they were going through a difficult time. “The high cost of living is taking a toll on us, but we are struggling to ensure that our children go to school. My girl was called to join Kwale Girls High school, but I cannot afford the fees, so I decided to bring her here,” Awadh said. She was among the parents who turned out to the school Monday morning. The school principal Faith Waithaka said they had made arrangements with parents on the mode and when the payments will be done. “Parents only pay for lunch money, and we have agreed on how they will pay for those who were unable to come up with the money,” Waithaka said. “We understand our parents and children come from slum areas, that’s why we are not sending anyone home. At least we assure the children of a meal while in school before they head back home.” Changamwe Secondary School is expected to admit 270 pupils. The school also has boarding facilities to accommodate about 170 students. Magiri said no child will be sent home as he urged parents to make arrangements with the schools on how they will pay their part. “Parents need to agree on how they will meet their small obligations, we can’t say that their children will go to school for free because they will be using school facilities. They need to make arrangements on when and how they will pay,” he said. President William Ruto on Sunday announced that the government had disbursed Sh36 billion capitation and distributed books to schools in the country. The government is paying capitation for free primary school and subsidized secondary school. “We have released about Sh36 billion to ensure that all our children get everything in school including teachers, books and all those other things that are needed for their learning are ready,” he said.