Keroka emerged overall winners as the curtains came down on the Kenya Association of Technical Training Institutions Sports Organisation (KATTISO) Lake Region athletics championships at Gusii Stadium in Kisii County on Tuesday. Keroka bagged 30 medals which included 19 gold, seven silver and four bronze medals to beat 33 other institutions to the overall title. Mawego was second with eight gold, 11 silver and four bronze medals while Siaya Technical finished third with a paltry three gold, four silver and two bronze medals. Ugunja was fourth with three gold, one silver and one bronze medal. Ugunja was voted the best new entrant during the two-day championships. Keroka won both the men’s and women’s categories followed by Mawego as Ekerubo Gietai came third in the men’s category. Siaya were third in the women’s category. In the highly entertaining men’s 5,000m, David Murumba of Ekerubo Gietai overcame a stiff challenge from Paul Moseti of Keroka to win the race. Murumba out-sprinted Moseti in the homestretch to lift the title in the race which kept fans on their feet. Murumba won in 14:27.30 while Moseti finished in 14: 28.12. The third place went to Duncan Moseti of Ekerubo Gietai in 15:00.40. Speaking after the race Murumba said: “It’s a race that would have gone either way but I had a strong finishing kick. We kept exchanging leads and Moseti was not giving up that is why I decided to wait until the last minute to kick.” Moseti said he will revenge at the nationals. “It was a highly tactical race but I mistimed my kick. I will go back to Keroka to work on my speed and endurance ahead of nationals,' said Moseti. Former junior international Beatrice Anyango, representing Mawego  Technical, was beaten in both the 100m race and 200m races. In 200m, Sharon Kwamboka of Keroka clinched gold in 26.68 with Anyango coming home second in 27.58. In 100m Lorna Ombati emerged winner in 12.51 with Anyango finishing second in 12.94. Caleb Omae of Riatirimba won the men’s 100m after crossing the finishing line in 11.32 while Eric Nyateka was second in 11.60. KATTISO Lake Region chairman Peter Akelo said: “The championship was highly competitive. We expect our athletes to perform better than last year at the national level, where we hope to finish in the podium."