Who sleeps the night before their wedding? These were the words of Theodorah Mukuti, a bridesmaid who was excited about her friend's wedding and was looking forward to a game night with fellow bridesmaids. On the night of November 15, 2021, Mukuti said the bridesmaids were to meet at the bride's home for final set up, catch up and confirmation of all items before the wedding day. "Everything at this point was okay, we met at her parent's house, ate dinner and talked for a while, as we prepared for the big day," she said. Mukuti said she experienced the culture shock of her life after her fellow bridesmaids and the bride said they were going to sleep, adding that the bride's mother was also leading others to go to sleep. "What do I do with my life now? how do you get sleepy the night before a big event?" she posed the question to her peers. Mukuti said according to her family tradition, the day leading to any event, people don't sleep, they find themselves talking until morning. Notably, she said most of them are always anxious for the next day, some listen to songs to calm them down, while others are just there for the 'vibe'  and most of them play games that never end. "I come from a huge family, and when we meet for events, everyone wants to talk about how they have been, what's going on in their lives and so on," she said. The night was still young, Mukuti said at 11 pm, the house was quiet as everyone had retired to bed, and what was left of her was to use her phone until the time she had psychologically prepared herself to sleep. "I didn't believe that I was seated, hoping for someone to come and join me in the 'no sleep the night before event' corner," she said. Understandably, Mukuti said they had to wake up early for make-up, photo session and assist the bride put on her gown. "I didn't feel bad as I had intended to, due to several activities we had to do before the wedding," she said. Mark Otieno, a sleep medicine specialist in Nairobi says it is normal for individuals to lack sleep the night before any event. Be it big or small. "This is a common practice among people, the act of excitement, taking in a lot of food could lead to lack of sleep the night before an event," he said. Otieno said most people have a lot of food with sugar that could cause a 'sugar rush' among adults making them have enough energy for the night. "In a normal household, you'll get a variety of food, drinks, and candy on the eve of an event." Otieno also said that people who lack sleep on the eve of an event are normal and that they are not suffering from any condition.