The right to access to information is provided under Article 35 (1) (b) of the Constitution of Kenya (CoK) 2010, which provides that every citizen has the right to access information held by the State or another person, which is required for the exercise of any right or fundamental freedom. Parliament further enacted the Access to Information Act 2016 to provide for the intricacies of exercising this right. This right can only be enjoyed by citizens of the Republic of Kenya. One major case where the right of access to information came into play was with the case of contracts pertaining to the Standard Gauge Railway project. Access to the contracts had been denied, leading to a case being filed in court. The High Court determined the matter in May 2022, ordering the State to provide the contracts. An application for access to information may be made in English or Kiswahili. The party requesting for such information must provide details and sufficient particulars for the information being sought. Where an applicant is unable to make a written request due to disability, illiteracy or any other reason, the information officer is obliged to take steps to aid such an applicant. Once an application is made, a decision must be made as soon as possible, but not later than 21 days after receiving the application. However, if the information sought concerns the life or liberty of a person, the information shall be provided within 48 hours. In instances where that time-frame is too short, possibly because of large volumes of information sought or a rigorous process required in compiling information, an extension may be given, making the period 14 days at most. Where the information or part of it is within the purview of a different entity, the officer shall transfer the request to the relevant entity within five days of receipt. Where a decision is made granting the request, the entity shall provide the information sought within 15 working days. Such information shall be provided at a reasonable cost. No fee is charged for submitting an application. The charges are for costs incurred in making copies and supplying them to the applicant. If the entity refuses to grant the request, it shall provide written reasons for the decision. There exists a commission that is set up to deal with issues of access to information. Where an applicant is aggrieved by any decision regarding a request for information, they may present such a request to the commission. The commission has various powers, which include hearing complaints, investigating matters and reviewing decisions. The right to access to information is not absolute and may be limited under certain circumstances. Under Section 6 of the Access to Information Act of 2016, limitations of the right to access to information are provided. These include: if granting the request would infringe on privacy, undermine national security, injure commercial interests, cause harm to the economy or endanger the life of a person or infringe professional confidentiality.