English Premier League leaders Arsenal travel to the King Power stadium today to take on Leicester City in one of the five matches lined up for Saturday. The Gunners will be keen to extend their two-point advantage over second-placed Manchester City who face Bournemouth in the last match of the day. The Gunners have dominated the head-to-head series against Leicester recently. They have won the last four meetings between the teams, outscoring Leicester 11-3 over that time. In 33 Premier League meetings all-time, Arsenal have 20 wins to Leicester's five with eight draws recorded. Arsenal who last won the EPL title 18 years ago, came from behind to beat Aston Villa 4-2 at the Emirates while the Foxes suffered a humiliating 3-0 defeat in the hands of a rampant Manchester United side. Mikel Arteta's side have won all the last three matches at the King Power Stadium. Man City will look to keep pace with Arsenal with win against Bournemouth. City failed to put Nottingham Forest to the sword which saw Pep Guardiola's team draw 1-1 last time. Bournemouth had a week-long time to prepare for this match and will like cause problems for the City backline. Defending Champions City must recover from their mid-week champions league exploits against Bundesliga giants RB Leipzig. The tie ended 1-1. Erling Haaland is tipped to score provided he receives the right service. Kevin De Bruyne who was rested against Leipzig will likely start. Tottenham Hotspur welcome rivals Chelsea in the London derby on Sunday. The Blues have won just twice in 14 recent matches, with boss Graham Potter coming under scrutiny. Last Weekend's 1-0 surprise loss to strugglers Southampton only heightened the call from the fanbase for the former Brighton Manager to be axed. Worryingly for the Blues, their expensively assembled attack under owner Todd Boehly is not scoring goals. Both sides mastered a 2-2 all-draw at Stamford Bridge in the first leg but on current form, Spurs are favourites if their three wins and two losses in five matches is any barometer. Manchester United are not in EPL action. Erick Ten Hag's men play Newcastle in the final of the Carabao Cup at Wembley Stadium on Sunday. United are looking for its first title in almost six years. They last won the Europa League trophy in 2017 under Jose Mourinho. Newcastle's last trophy was the Inter-Cities Fairs Cup (which eventually became the Europa League) in 1969.