Butali Warriors team manager Kamal Sembi said the club fell short of their target after finishing third at the African Club Championship that ended on Sunday at the Dashmesh Hockey Stadium, Nairobi. The Kenya Hockey Union Premier League champions beat Police Machine of Nigeria 3-2 in the third-place playoff courtesy of Rana Raiz, Calvins Kanu and Festus Onyango's strikes. Sunday Orinya and Henry Olanyinka replied for Machine. Butali had finished second in Group 'A' behind leaders Exchequers while Kenya Police finished third in Group 'B' alongside Zamaleck, Western Jaguars, Weatherhead and Kada Stars. Sembi said: "We fell short of our targets but we learnt vital lessons that will help the players improve. Winning the title was the bare minimum. However, the boys showed a fighting spirit. We need to take our chances to avoid being punished especially in the latter stages of matches." "We didn't have enough time to prepare. Two weeks after the league had ended wasn't enough. A month would have benefited us a great deal." Sharkia emerged the champions after beating Ghana's Exchequers 4-2 in the men's final. Johnny Botsio scored a brace for Exchequers to match Sharkia's Hossam Ghobran while Hamada Abdelmoneim and Khaul Ayman scored a goal each to put the difference between the two sides. In the women's category, Lakers were the top-ranked Kenyan team at fourth in a seven-team tournament played on round-robin format. The Kisumu-based side mastered 11 points, two points behind champions Ghana Revenue Authority and Army Ladies. GRA topped the standings on goal difference. Delta Queens from Nigeria managed bronze. Blazers, Strathmore Scorpions and Kada Queens finished fifth, sixth and seventh respectively. Lakers coach Austin Tuju said: "We are very proud of our performance despite the financial challenges we are facing. We finished third in the league and being the top-ranked Kenyan team in this competition speaks volumes of how far this young team, only three years old, can go." He added: "Small sports like hockey must be recognised just like football and athletics and be given equal treatment." Team manager John Paul Otieno, added: "We came to the tournament to learn. We have showed the world we aren't a small team."