The families of the three people killed in Karebe gold mine explosion in Nandi are demanding  justice, accusing investigating authorities of being slow to bring the offenders to justice. Geofrey Onyango, Julius Kipchumba and Geofrey Rotich died after a wall built to prevent the mine from flooding and illegal incursion was blasted by alleged illegal miners. The incident, which occurred two weeks ago, also left six other people injured. Earlier on in a statement, the mining company said they had asked the authorities and the government for help in dealing with the scourge of illegal miners since 2021 but no action has been taken. Residents of Kibisem and Chemase in Tinderet have urged the government to arrest those responsible for the explosion, complaining that the attack has caused tension in the neighbourhood and mining operations have stopped for fear of another deadly illegal blast. The suspects said to be well known in the area, are also alleged to be well connected to figures in the government. They are said to be allegedly inciting a section of residents to cause havoc with the intention of taking over the mining company. The mining company licensed by the government is among the largest commercial mines in Kenya. Residents and leaders are wondering why no action has been taken since the incident occurred. Jane Sang, the mother of Rotich, said her son was the family's breadwinner. She said the young men lost their lives as they eked out a living for their families and urged the government to ensure justice is served. Speaking at the weekend during the burial of one of the victims, Nandi Governor Stephen Sang issued a two-day ultimatum for the key suspects to be arrested. He said police should complete their investigation as soon as possible and those involved brought to book. Sang said the law should take its course and the perpetrators apprehended. He said the bereaved families must be supported as they seek justice. The governor distanced the county government from the gold mining conflict, saying his administration has no interest in the mining sector. Karebe Gold Mining chairperson Joshua Choge, however, said the company would continue operating and would not give in to intimidation from rival groups. The company pledged their support to the bereaved families and assured that the company would employ the spouses of the victims. Several insecurity cases are under investigation where the mining company accuses one of the local rival mining companies of scheming to disrupt Karebe’s mining activities. The mining company suffered misfortune in 2022 after staff houses, vehicles and machinery were torched by arsonists. The company said it has written numerous letters to government authorities over the safety and wellbeing of its staff and property. They have been urging the government to address the illegal mining incursion on the licensed area since January 2021.