Olympic champion Peris Jepchirchir and World marathon record holder Brigid Kosgei have been entered for this year's London Marathon slated for April 23. The duo will be seeking to topple defending champion and world 10K record holder Yalemzerf Yehualaw of Ethiopia in what will be a competitive field for the prestigious event. Team Kenya will also be represented by Judith Korir. In addition to that stellar trio, the reigning Olympic 10,000m and 5000m champion Sifan Hassan of the Netherlands will be making her marathon debut. Also on the start list will be the world 1,500m record holder,  Genzebe Dibaba, the 2016 Olympic 10,000m champion Almaz Ayana and the reigning Berlin Marathon champion Tigist Assefa (ETH), the fifth-fastest women’s marathoner in history— all from Ethiopia. Britain's Eilish Mcolgan the reigning 10,000m Commonwealth Games champion will also be making her debut as well as three national record holders—Emily Sisson (USA), Sinead Diver (Australia) and Natasha Wodak (Canada). London Marathon event director, Hugh Brasher, said: “This is quite simply the greatest women’s field ever assembled for a marathon. "It is arguably the greatest field ever assembled for a women’s distance race." "We have two reigning Olympic champions, three world record holders and multiple national record holders, in addition to an incredibly strong British contingent led by Eilish McColgan." He added: “It’s going to be a race the whole world will be anticipating and I can’t wait to see what happens on April 23. "We’ve had such a rich pedigree of incredible women’s results here in London. "We have had world records and unforgettable performances from the likes of Grete Weitz, Ingrid Kristiansen, Paula Radcliffe and Mary Keitany. "I am sure this amazing 2023 women’s field will provide another extraordinary chapter in the London Marathon’s rich and proud history of stunning races.” In the men's category,  defending champion Amos Kipruto of Kenya and world champion Tamirat Tola of Ethiopia will also return to London, along with multiple world and Olympic champion, Mo Farah and two-time New York Marathon winner Geoffrey Kamworor. Kipruto’s win at last year’s London Marathon was the biggest victory of his career and his first Abbott World Marathon Major triumph. “Winning last year’s TCS London Marathon was an incredible experience for me,” said the 30-year-old, who was second at last year’s Tokyo Marathon behind world record-holder Eliud Kipchoge and third in the 2019 World Championships. “I am now preparing hard for this year’s race and I can’t wait to return to London as the champion. “London always has a really strong field and this year is the same so I know I will face a battle to defend my title, but I’m confident and looking forward to it,” Kipruto said. 