More often than we can admit, we find ourselves in arguments, or unable to successfully handle serious or critical conversations. When the stakes are high, speakers tend to hold their opinions close and end up messing up the conversation. In human nature, emotions and moods can easily lead us to act in a self-destructive manner. In her book, Crucial Conversations, Kerry Patterson says being able to keep your calm, considering other person's feelings and speaking wisely can go a long way in maintaining good relations. This is, certainly easier said than done. But one can make things better if the following measures are considered: Think about the conversation you are about to have. Why do you want your partner to take your approach to things? You are the only person that can change you. Only you can hold yourself back and avoid saying hurtful things or shouting. Only you can change your mind on the matter of discussion. Work on that first before holding a crucial discussion. It is easier to think about yourself first, especially if you feel hurt, misunderstood or abandoned. This is the time that you need to take a deep breath, clear your head and think about the other person's situation. Then talk it out. Arguing over a remote or over the spicy chicken sauce may not be the problem. We tend to bring up the 'no big deal' issues to cover up the underlying issue. Create time to talk about the 'real' issue to avoid arguments over trivial topics. You may start a conversation in an understanding atmosphere only for it to take a hard path. Walking out may seem disrespectful but it may save the relationship between the speakers. Excuse yourself, take a breather to calm yourself then go back to talking. It is normal to disagree, but you have to note that it is possible to solve an argument without using negative terms. Whether you mean it or not, those words have the same impact. As adults, while handling these conversations, remember that the children know what is happening. Be a role model and show them that it is okay to talk about tough issues and to forgive each other. Insulting each other shows your children that it is okay to be disrespectful to one another. Patterson says the pool of shared meaning is the birthplace of synergy. This is a place where every member of your family pitches in on a certain discussion. This pool helps members to understand why certain discussions were made and commit willingly. Opinions may vary and emotions run high. Remember to take a breather and focus on the positives in your family. The Sucker's choice is the belief that there are only two choices: either/or. Remember the goal is to come to agreeable terms. Do not divert from it. Talk about what you need or want and let your partner see your perspective. Asking yourself what you want will help you focus on the goals of the conversation. Let it not be winning. Let it be solving a certain matter. It will also help you be in control of your emotions and body. This way, you will be keen not to shout or say something hurtful.  Edited by Bosco Marita