National Olympic Committee of Kenya president Paul Tergat is leading a team to Miramas City in France to sign a Memorandum of Understanding for Team Kenya's Paris 2024 preparations. The development was brought to light on Thursday in a statement signed by NOC-K secretary general, Francis Mutuku. “The MOU signing will take place in Miramas on Friday with specific organizations including the South of France; the Department of Bouches-du-Rhône, Miramas Metropole, and the Miramas Athletics Club," Mutuku said. “This will be on the sidelines of the World Athletics Indoor Meeting at Stadium Miramas Métropole, where Kenyan athletes will also be participating including African and Commonwealth Champions in 100 meters Ferdinand Omanyala.” The SG is part of the delegation accompanying Tergat, which also includes NOC-K Treasurer Eliud Kariuki and Kenya's Ambassador to France, Prof Judi Wakhungu. “The embassy's role in assisting the Kenyan delegation in the run-up to the Olympics will be critical," Mutuku explained. Early last year, the NOC-K Executive initiated discussions with Miramas, the South of France Territory in the City of Marseille, and a delegation from either party had orientation visits, with the Miramas team visiting in December last year to finalize details of the MOU. According to Mutuku, the details will be released upon signing, but the primary goal of this collaboration is to help individual athletes and teams prepare for the 2024 Olympics. “It is expected that local clubs in the South of France will make their facilities and professionals available to Team Kenya to best prepare for the Olympics beginning early this year.” Miramas is home to Stadium Miramas Métropole, which hosts international athletics competitions and other sports events including Diamond Leagues, handball, basketball, boxing, fencing, judo, and badminton. NOCK said if the agreement goes through, pre-camps will start immediately with the first batch of Kenyan sprinters expected to jet out in the coming month. “Each team will, possibly, travel to enjoy the world-class facility at Miramas Metropole Stadium as we count down to the Olympics.” The partnership aims at refining individual athletes and teams to enable them to perform well at the Paris 2024 Olympics. The MoU also incorporates coaches' training, technical s, support, and infrastructure development. Earlier last year, 11 Kenyan sprinters were hosted at the Stadium Miramas Metropole for a month-long technical training camp, following a partnership between AK and the Miramas Athletics Club. The athletes were among those that represented Kenya at the World Under 20 Championships in Cali, Colombia.