President William Ruto has reiterated his hardline stance that the opposition won't intimidate him into doing what befits their interests. Ruto who was speaking in Mombasa during the launch of Taifa gas at Dongo Kundu Special Economic Zone said they will not be cowed and fall into threats of the Azimio brigade. "We will work with everyone and I agree with my deputy on what he has said. We were all elected by Kenyans, but if we continue going to the streets for demonstrations we will fail to deliver to Kenyans," he said. He said leaders should engage at the political table and not in the streets. "People should stop using threats on us.  It is actually ‘Master-Slave’ mentality to imagine that we need their (Azimio) permissions to work for Kenyans," said Ruto. "I want to say that we do not need permission from any character to be able to serve the people who voted for us. Therefore, those who think we need their permission, Kenya is a free country." Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua, at the same function, sensationally claimed the calls for mass action by Raila against their government cost him his job at AUC. Gachagua said, "AU could not work with a person who is consistently on the streets." "Amekua na kazi kubwa kama AU representative wa infrastructure, lakini ameenda maandamano akafukuzwa kazi. Si hii maandamano imemueka hasara? Loosely translated, "Raila had a big job as AU Representative on Infrastructure, but due to his consistent demos, he was shown the door. The demonstrations have cost him." Gachagua said Raila and his team cannot fault the legitimacy of Ruto’s government and still want to be part of it. "They say ours in an illegitimate government, but still they want to be part of it. If we allow them into the government they will come in to frustrate our plans," he said. However, Raila has already claimed that he, three weeks ago, requested to be let go from the AU responsibilities to pursue other urgent matters. In a statement on Thursday, Raila said he expressed his desire to be allowed time to attend to other matters that need his attention. "During our meeting on the sidelines of the 2nd Dakar African Infrastructure Financing Summit in Dakar, Senegal about three weeks ago, I indicated the challenges to my continued availability for the role of AU High Representative for Infrastructure Development in Africa,” said Raila. He added: "In that regard, I welcome your quick action that will free me to pursue other pressing and urgent matters," Raila said. In October 2018, Raila was appointed by the African Union Commission following a recommendation by former President Uhuru Kenyatta after their handshake. However, in the recent past, Raila has been leading rallies to criticize the Kenya Kwanza government and has also escalated the calls for mass action against President Ruto’s administration In a letter dated February 19, African Union Commission President Moussa Faki announced the end of Raila's tenure as special envoy. Faki commended the ODM leader for accepting the role, adding that Raila's leadership has been key to leveraging infrastructure as a key priority in the continent. "The transformation of the NEPAD Agency to the African Union Development Agency has now been completed, with a full mandate to implement the Continental agenda on infrastructure," Faki said. However, political analysts have been reading mischief after Raila’s sudden departure from the continental body. Gachagua’s assertions have confirmed that the opposition leader could have been kicked out because of opposing Ruto’s government. Earlier on, Nyali MP Mohammed Ali said the Azimio team is trying to provoke Ruto by staging the street demonstrations. "Do not fall for those threats and provocation," Ali told Ruto. Likoni MP Mboko tried to defend the Azimio team, saying the push against Ruto’s government will make Kenya Kwanza deliver on its promises. "Remember this (push) will make you politically stronger. We are not opposing you," said Mboko. The leaders spoke during the groundbreaking ceremony of the 30,000 metric tonnes Taifa Gas Plant at Dongo Kundu in Mombasa. Taifa Gas Investment SEZ Limited, a multinational conglomerate owned by Tanzania’s business magnate Rostam Aziz, is expected to shake up the energy industry forcing the prices downwards. The company is investing USD130 million (SH16 billion) in a Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) import, storage and distribution plant at Mombasa’s Dongo Kundu Special Economic Zone (SEZ). The national government has allocated the investor a 30-acre parcel of land for the project. The facility will be one of Kenya’s largest private sector investments in the recent past and among the first multi-nationals that have been allowed to set up base at the 3,000-acre in the Dongo Kundu Special Economic Zone.