A licensed firearm holder was Monday arrested over the fatal shooting of a female National Hospital Insurance Fund officer on Kaunda Street, Nairobi. The man was traced to his home in Kenol, Murang’a where he has been in the past week. He denied shooting the killer bullet that hit Mary Gathenya Waithera on February 13 as she walked home. He told police he was in the CBD on that day and was carrying his rifle but he never fired. Police suspect he discharged the gun by mistake and the killer bullet came down hitting Gathenya in the collar borne. The man was disarmed of his rifle and the weapon was handed over to the ballistic experts for analysis. Other police sources said the man has a female friend at Jubilee Insurance Building which is opposite the site where Gathenya was killed. “He says he never went up to any of the floors at the building and he allegedly went and placed the weapon in his car before leaving,” said a senior officer aware of the probe. The man was picked up by detectives who said he had been out of town for long. The suspect is a businessman in town. Police are now trying to place him at the scene of the crime as part of the probe. Initially, police and pedestrians had thought Gathenya, 46 collapsed and died out of natural causes but an autopsy done on the body realized a bullet lodged in her lungs. The bullet had been fired from an elevated angle and went into the body through the collar borne before stopping in the lungs. Blood was oozing from his mouth after she collapsed seeking help. She told those close to her something had hit her. The body was moved from Nairobi Hospital to Kenyatta University mortuary where the post-mortem was conducted by a group of pathologists who declared the case of death as a result of the shooting. Nairobi Regional Police Commander Adamson Bungei said the bullet head was handed to ballistic experts for analysis. He confirmed the suspect had been arrested as part of the probe into the incident. “We suspect it was a bullet that discharged and came back hitting her but let us hear what experts say,” he said. Witnesses and police said Gathenya started to complain of chest pain as she walked downtown on February 13 at about 5 pm. She then collapsed and lost her breath. Her colleagues who were with her called an ambulance which arrived minutes later but the responders declared her dead at the scene. She had walked from her place of work in Upper Hill and was headed home when the incident happened. Other witnesses said they had heard a gun fire at that time but police said there were blood stains at the scene. The incident sparked speculation it could be an assassin’s work. But police say it is far-fetched.