Cabinet secretary for Sports Ababu Namwamba has challenged Kenyan boxers to increase the country's visibility on the world stage this year. Namwamba expressed his admiration for the boxers following their impressive outing at the East Africa Invitational Tournament in Dar es salaam, Tanzania, where they started the year with four gold medals. The CS spoke after attending the 2023 Boxing Federation of Kenya Novices championships that concluded at the Umoja 1 Boxing Hall in Nairobi over the weekend. He faulted Boxing Federation of Kenya president  Anthony 'Jamal' Ombok, for keeping calm despite the team's outstanding performance in the neighbouring country. "Whenever the national team performs well on the world stage, you shouldn't keep a low profile. Kenyans must learn about it," Namwamba said. Namwamba promised to designate a special day in his office to formally meet the team. "Please, deliver the four gold-medal-winning boxers to my office. I wish to share in their joy, " said Namwamba, adding that the government have established a thorough plan to take sports to the required levels. The CS promised to turn around the fortunes of boxers in the country. "I will make sure the president fulfils his promises to Kenyan athletes because I am his foot soldier. I pledge to stick by Kenyan boxers through good and bad times until they attain the desired heights," said Namwamba. Hit Squad Benjamin Musa said they expect more governmental assistance this year. He observed that additional government support is necessary for the sportto live up to expectations. Musa said lack of finances has seen the competitiveness of the local pugilists take a hit unlike the years gone by where Nobert Wangila pounded his way to an Olympic gold medal at the 1988 Seoul Games. "We have a lot of confidence in the current CS since he has already made great efforts to streamline sports in the nation. We have seen what he has accomplished with football and I think he also has some good intentions for boxing," said Musa. Musa revealed that the CS promised to invite the BFK top brass for a thorough evaluation of the country's boxing scene in the coming days. "We haven't sat down with him to map out the future but I anticipate it will happen shortly. If we receive the assistance we need, we are certain of reaching incredible heights," he said.