Strathmore Scorpions coach Meshack Senge said their unsuccessful bid for the title at the African Cup for Club Championships, was down to inexperience. Scorpions failed to replicate their league form, which saw them crowned the Kenya Hoceky Union Premier League champions last month. The students finished sixth in the seven-team continental championships with a meagre four points. Strathmore drew 1-1 with Army Ladies from Ghana and lost to the quartet of Ghana Revenue Authority, Delta Queens, Lakers and Blazers. Their only maximum points was a walkover, just like the rest of the teams, against Kada Queens of Nigeria, who gave the tournament a wide berth. "We didn't perform as expected. It boils down to inexperience. The level and experience was way above us. Winning the league was easy since it is a competition we are used to," said Senge. "Playing at the continental level requires maturity. Gilly Okumu and Diana Awino are the only players with such experiences." Senge maintained that stage fright got the better of his team but believes the outing provides valuable lessons for growth. "Composure and patience was totally lacking. We maintained our playing structure but we were not clinical upfront," said Senge. Senge hopes the players will recharge ahead of their return to training on Thursday. He revealed they will reinforce their attack and defence once their trials are over on Wednesday. There will be no time to rest for the students, who return to action this weekend at the Kenya University Sports Association (KUSA) games. "The past week was grueling, that's why we gave the players a deserved three-day break. I hope they will return fresh. The trials started yesterday (Monday) and we hope to get players who can remodel our attack while defence also needs to be addressed,"said Senge. Senge also has his fingers crossed that injured star Okumu won't be out for long after missing their last ACCC match against GRA with a knee injury, a match they lost 3-0. "Gilly is being assessed. We are waiting for a report from the medical department. Hopefully, it isn't serious," he said.