Police have summoned lawyer Danstan Omari to appear at the Directorate of Criminal Investigations on Wednesday over the alleged raid on former Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiangi’s Nairobi home. In the summons to Omari, the officers said they are investigating the offence of publication of false information and they believe Omari is connected to the offence or has information which can assist in investigations. The lawyer is to appear at DCI Kiambu Road before police senior superintendent Michael Sang at 9.30am Wednesday without fail. Omari said he will be at the DCI as per the summonses without fear, even as he protested the move, terming it politics. He said had he be defending a UDA politician, there would be no trouble for him but because he is defending Azimio ones, police are harassing him. “I took an oath to defend clients and that is my job as a lawyer. This country cannot be filled with fear and intimidation because of politics. We will stand firm,” the lawyer said. Omari further said he was doing his job when he went to defend the former Interior CS over the raid. He said he has defended police against false accusations when everyone did not want to touch them. “They were accused of murder and no one wanted to defend them. This country cannot be filled with fear that we will charge you. The courts are independent,” he said. “When there is change of regime they will still be arrested and the only constant factor is that lawyers will never refuse to represent a client because of politics. So I will be here tomorrow.” He spoke as he and Pokot MP David Pkosing walked out of DCI headquarters after being cleared of a probe into claims of being involved in cattle rustling. Last Wednesday, February 8, police raided Matiang'i's home and carted away a server of CCTV camera. They broke doors at the home as they ransacked it for the CCTV for footage on an earlier aborted raid, which was denied by the government. DCI director Mohamed Amin said then they had made significant progress in the ongoing investigations surrounding allegations of a raid in the home of the former CS on  the night of Wednesday, February 8. “After a comprehensive investigation, the DCI has determined that no complaint has been made at any police station regarding the alleged raid,” Amin said. “Through our efforts, we have recorded statements from the VIP police deployed to Dr Matiang'i's residence on the night in question, as well as statements from the private security company guarding the property.” The DCI chief said they have also taken note of the allegations made by lawyers who held a meeting with the former Interior CS before the complaint was lodged on live TV, including a claim that there were 200 lawyers surrounding the former minister to shield him from the police officers. “We will continue to gather information from all parties involved in this matter. This afternoon, our officers obtained a search order to obtain CCTV recordings from the home of the former Interior Cabinet Secretary to establish the facts surrounding the alleged raid," he said. “Upon completing our investigation, we will take action if any officers from any security agency were involved in any unauthorised activities, or if any false information was knowingly disseminated by anyone to the public.” Amin said the DCI is committed to conducting impartial investigations and upholding the rule of law. “We take all allegations seriously and will continue to work diligently to bring the truth to light,” he said. 