Homa Bay Governor Gladys Wanga wants leaders in the county to stop using Early Childhood Education teachers to settle their political scores. She said the current disquiet among many ECDE teachers in Homa Bay over the implementation of the Salaries and Remuneration Commission recommendations is politicised. The teachers have claimed that the employer began implementing the recommendation ostensibly to cut down their salaries. They said they realized the reduction in their last month's pay slips. Through their umbrella body, Kenya National Union of Pre-Primary Education Teachers, the teachers this week issued a seven days strike notice should the county government continue the implementation of the reviewed salaries. Kunoppet national chairman Lawrence Otunga said the newly implemented salaries had adversely affected teachers, leading to a serious reduction of the teachers’ salaries. “Homa Bay teachers were not consulted before implementation of the SRC recommendation. We're giving the employer seven days to stop it or lest we meet on the streets,” Otunga said on Sunday. But in a press release, Governor Wanga said the salary review has been blown out of context to create misunderstanding. “We know politicians pushing some of our teachers to go on strike and engage in demos. Don’t hide behind them please but face us directly,” Wanga said. The governor said she found some teachers serving under contract without confirmation letters when she assumed office. The teachers were confirmed before they were put on permanent and pensionable terms. Wanga said she increased their salaries before SRC came up with the recommendations. She said she increased salaries of teachers with diplomas from Sh18,000 to Sh33,000. But in January, she received a circular from SRC directing her to pay the teachers in line with the laid job groups. The SRC recommendations led to a reduction in the teachers’ pay. According to SRC, a teacher with a diploma should be paid Sh23,390. Those with certificates have also had their salaries reviewed. The county government now pays a teacher with a certificate Sh14,874 instead of sh15,000. Wanga said the implementation of the salaries review was undertaken in line with SRC recommendations. She asked teachers to stay away from politics on grounds that it is unhealthy. The governor said she has not reduced ECDE teachers’ salaries to Sh7,000. “There is no teacher who is paid Sh7,000 in Homa Bay. The ongoing talks about salaries of ECDE teachers have been politicised which shouldn’t be the case,” Wanga said. She wants residents to keep off the politics and promised to have a dialogue with the teachers to ensure they undertake their duties effectively. According to Wanga, she wants the teachers to work in a conducive environment. “We'll start a dialogue to create mutual understanding with regards to improving their welfare,” Wanga said.