A week after stepping down as Mathare United's head coach, Boniface Omondi has slammed some of the club's players for being outright sellouts. Omondi said he was shocked to learn that a number of his players conspired to lose matches even as he frantically tried to remedy the situation. The tactician, who resigned in disgrace after their 5-0 thrashing by Kenya Police a week ago, spoke after the local governing body suspended Lennox Oguttu and Alphonse Ndonye on match-fixing charges. Omondi has furiously ripped into the pair, claiming they cost him his job. "I thought I was losing matches due to my tactics, so I changed my training method and team game plan because we were losing and conceding a lot of goals. As a result, after ten matches, I decided to end my contract for the sake of the team," Omondi bemoaned. "Today, I am saddened by the fact that two of my players were involved in match-fixing, which resulted in the team losing and conceding more than three goals in each game played," he added. Omondi, however, tipped the Slum Boys to turn around their dwindling fortunes on the top-flight stage. "Mathare United will win the remaining matches, in my opinion."The duo's suspension has added a new dimension to the ongoing Football Kenya Federation's match-fixing investigations. Both players are, subsequently, barred from attending or competing in any football competitions with immediate effect.FKF confirmed in a letter that it had launched investigations into the allegations. “FKF requests you to furnish the FKF Integrity Department with the official contact details of Mr. Ogutu and Mr. Ndonye through integrity@footballkenya.org. “To protect the integrity of the game during this investigation period, we wish to inform you that we have regrettably suspended both Mr. Ogutu and Mr. Ndonye from all football activities until the matter is concluded,” FKF said in a letter to the Mathare CEO Jacktone Obure. Match-fixing cases have become common in top-tier competition, putting the country under scrutiny.On Friday, the FKF Integrity Department suspended four referees—Tony Kidiya, Nyabera Libese, Boniface Gikonyo, and Hassan Omondi for alleged match-fixing—and warned other referees not to contact them in any way. 