Nzoia Sugar head coach Salim Babu has urged his charges to hit the accelerator and reclaim the lead over record champions Gor Mahia when they face Talanta at Moi Stadium, Kasarani Annex in their Round of 17 Kenyan Premier League fixture on Saturday. The millers have so far overcome their reputation as underdogs to become the tournament's dark horses after putting together a strong run that has them sitting second on the log with 33 points, one behind K'Ogalo who toppled them from the apex  a week ago. Babu believes they stand their best chance ever of laying claim to a maiden topflight silverware if they can sustain the momentum they set early in the season. "It is true that the contest is drawing near as it moves into a crucial phase. We constantly scan our surroundings for threats posed by our nearest rivals. Despite this, we can't let these worries get in the way of our objective, which is to accrue as many points as we can from the games we still have left in the league," Babu said. "Any worries we had at the start of the season are all in the past now. You must have noticed that after every successful league performance, the confidence of our team members increases day by day. "When the league first began a few weeks ago, if you had asked me the same question, I would have responded that it was a pipe dream. At this point, the league may as well be ours to lose, so I can confidently say that we are very much in contention." Babu has stated he is not shaking in his boots following widespread rumors that he might soon lose two of his best midfielders because they are on the radar of well-resourced rivals Tusker. "We've decided as a team that we should stick together through the end of the season to complete the task we started together. I've also advised the players who are being pursued by other teams to wait until the end of the season to receive better offers." Meanwhile, Gor Mahia skipper Philemon Otieno has cautioned his teammates against getting comfortable as they prepare to play Kenya Police at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Saturday. "Police have always been a difficult team to play against, so the game won't be a walk in the park. They have some elite players who will add to the intrigue of our encounter with them, "stated Otieno. Other games on Saturday include a match between Mathare United and Wazito at Ruaraka Grounds and a match between second-placed KCB and AFC Leopards at Nyayo Stadium. At Bukhungu stadium in Kakamega, Kakamega Homeboyz play the cash-strapped Vihiga Bullets in a derby match, while Bandari hosts Bidco United at Mbaraki grounds in Mombasa. While Nairobi City Stars will play Ulinzi Stars at Kasarani Annex, champions Tusker will play Posta Rangers on the road at Thika Stadium. The only game scheduled for Friday pits Sofapaka against Kariobangi Sharks.