While many people across the world welcomed the start of a New Year, thoughts were different for Rose*. 2023 marks her fifth straight year living at home since she left secondary school. Had things turned out differently, Rose would be the proud holder of a diploma in food catering, but that was not to be because her family does not have the money she needs to proceed with tertiary education. In statistical terms, Rose would be classified among those not in education, employment or training (NEET). Living in an urban residential area, Rose does not have to contend with farm work. She spends her day watching television or chatting with friends on social media. Sometimes she goes out to meet her age mates in neighbouring homes, but that's as far as their interaction goes because they have no money between themselves. Considering the temptations that may befall an idle group, the lack of money may be a ticking time bomb. Rose's fate is similar to that of many young people who left secondary school with lots of excitement about life as emerging young adults. At the age of 18, they had huge expectations regarding freedom from parental supervision, careers, freedom to engage in romantic relationships, the possibility of financial independence and generally the right to exercise free will. The reality is quite different, though. World Bank data puts at 19 per cent the portion of young Kenyans aged 15 to 34 who are not in employment, education or training. Statista, an online data platform, puts the number of affected Kenyan youth at 17 per cent. Either way, roughly one out of six Kenyan youths are in the same situation as Rose. How do they get out of it? In some cases, the problem is not lack of money. The popular assumption is that secondary school leavers know exactly what they want to do with their lives, but many did not get the necessary guidance on a career path. In essence, secondary school learners with no knowledge of careers are expected to make important decisions that will determine the rest of their lives. This is why such a large number end up wallowing in limbo, trying to figure out what to do. How, then, can teachers, families and caregivers help teenagers get onto viable career paths? How can secondary school leavers ensure they don't end up stuck due to lack of knowledge on how to get started on a career path? 1. Decide on a career If you are a school leaver, your first step – if you haven't already done so – is to make up your mind on exactly what you wish to do. Do you want to be a doctor? A pilot? An accountant? Or maybe you want to get into the arts to become a musician or actor? Perhaps you are more inclined towards sports and wish to follow the footsteps of legends such as Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi? Get as much information as you can about your preferred career choice. One way of doing this is by talking to people who work in that profession. If you don't know anyone in occupations that interest you, ask your parents, friends or teachers for their contacts. Another way of learning about careers is by attending events hosted by companies in that professional field. Interested in a hotel career? Attend tours and travel exhibitions. Want to be an engineer? Take part in engineering forums. 2. Make a career plan The world-famous Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) describes a career plan as a list of goals and the actions you must take to achieve them. A career plan, for example, will help you make decisions about what courses to take in the career you have chosen. Furthermore, it will help you identify the extracurricular activities, research and internships that will make you a strong candidate when seeking employment. A career plan should be flexible enough to suit changing circumstances. Your plans can also change in future. A career plan does not have to define an entire lifetime. Start by making a plan for the next two to five years after secondary school and you can revise the plan as you move along. 3. Follow your passion While in secondary school, most students cannot pursue their interest in music, sports and other extracurricular activities due to the pressure of studying for exams. Many secondary schools in Kenya do not have the facilities to promote such interests because the focus is strictly on the formal curriculum. Now that you are out of secondary school, you are free to pursue your hobbies either full or part-time. Being actively involved in something outside the home is a great opportunity for meeting people who could help you in your chosen career. 4. Volunteering Look for volunteer opportunities in your community, religious institutions, community-based organisations and government agencies. Volunteering allows you to serve the community while boosting your life experience. You can sharpen your professional skills through volunteer activities, in addition to meeting like-minded people. Experience gained as a volunteer shows future employers you are motivated and engaged. 5. Social media Whether running a business, releasing a new piece of music or contributing to political debates, social media can get you noticed. However, social media is a double-edged sword with long-term consequences on your life. Employers and college admissions officers often check out applicants' online activity. This will show them what kind of person you are. Avoid posting anything rude, defamatory or obscene. Don't post or share content that promotes gender, ethnic, racial or religious discrimination, or indeed any other type of bias. 6. Lifelong learning Secondary school is just one stage in the education system. The constantly changing trends in employment suggest a need for continuous learning throughout our lives. It is the way we learn new skills, gain new knowledge or change the way we do things. Lifelong learning happens through practical experience but may also involve formal education through short or long courses. Develop a mindset of lifelong learning so you can keep pace with changes in technology and, in that way, fully exploit opportunities that come your way. If, like Rose, you find yourself stuck several years after high school, it is never too late to make a change in your life, but you must be willing to make the first moves.