Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has weighed in on government's plan to increase university tuition fees. The presidential working party on education reforms recommended an increment of fees paid in higher learning institutions to help them stay afloat financially. This will see fees increased from Sh16,000 to at least Sh48,000 But speaking in Kakamega on Saturday, Kalonzo regretted that the government seems to have a plan to deny Kenyans higher education. He said education to all was supposed to be among Kenya Kwanza's priorities. "Wewe ni hustler sampuli gani? Watoto wa mahustler wenyewe sahii hakuna chakula nyumbani (What kind of a hustler are you? Vulnerable children don't even have food at the moment at home)?" Kalonzo said. "The most important thing you should give to your people is education. You cannot deny the Kenyan children education," he added. Kalonzo pointed out that during his time as the Minister of Education under former President Mwai Kibaki's regime, they had set up plans to benefit all Kenyans. This was the free and compulsory education plan. The former Vice President said the Azimio team had a plan to make education free for all secondary school students. The education reforms taskforce led by Raphael Munavu also wants the government to bail out public universities from part of their debts. The taskforce in their second interim report has presented the recommendation as a solution to the financial challenges facing universities. According to the state department of higher education, the university debts have accrued to Sh61 billion as of February 2023. "The Government should provide universities with a bailout package for pension, CBA and salary arrears that are pending," the report reads. The proposal came under sharp criticism as University student leaders faulted the education review team for recommending an increase in varsity fees. Kenya Private Universities Students Association secretary general Victor Mwalu predicted increased university students dropouts if the proposal is adopted.