The cast for The Real Housewives of Nairobi has been unveiled. First announced in September 2022, The Real Housewives of Nairobi will follow five influential and successful women as they navigate their lavish lifestyles, relationships and careers in Nairobi. Here is the cast for the much-anticipated show; Susan Kaittany is an entrepreneur and owner of Posh Palace Hair Studio and Spa and Polished, the latter being a luxury fragrance and skincare shop. The mother of two left her law profession behind to pursue modelling and travelling before venturing into lifestyle and beauty entrepreneurship. Vera Sidika is a media personality and entrepreneur. Married to singer Brown Mauzo, she is one of Kenya’s most talked about celebrities and alongside her entrepreneurial ventures into the Spa and Herbal Tea industries, Sidika has more recently expanded her talents to music. She has one daughter, with one more child on the way. Sonal Maherali is a luxury influencer, fashion collector and entrepreneur. She established her niche through luxury vlogging in 2010 and the mother of four has since founded Simba Maharani, a luxury clothing and shoe line. Maherali is also an advocate for mental health awareness. Minne Kariuki is an actress and entrepreneur, she is also married to Jaguar’s former manager and businessman Charles Muigai with whom they have two daughters. The youngest of the five housewives, Kariuki is sassy, bold and unapologetic about who she is. Currently, she is also starring in the Showmax Original drama series Single Kiasi. Lisa Christoffersen is an interior designer, author, business owner, rally driver and luxury safari curator. Christoffersen is the founder of Lioness Rally, the first women-only rally team in Kenya, and Lifestyle Nairobi, an artisanal space in Nairobi’s diplomatic hub of Gigiri, featuring an art gallery, restaurants, a spa, organic shops and fashion houses. Showmax Content Specialist in East Africa Denise Mwende said each of the ladies has a strong personality and a sure identity of themselves. "They are hardworking, affluent, influential and unapologetic women who are not ashamed to live largely and live well because they have earned it. They're also a representation of the diverse communities we have in Kenya," Mwende said. The Real Housewives of Nairobi is produced by Eugene Mbugua’s D&R Studios (formerly Young Rich Television) and is part of The Real Housewives franchise licensed as a format by NBC Universal Formats, which is part of Universal International Studios, a division of Universal Studio Group. The reality show is premiering on Showmax on February 23, with new episodes dropping every Thursday.