Education stakeholders in Busia have been challenged to enhance efforts geared towards improving performance in learning institutions across the county. Speaking during the unveiling of the County Education Support Scheme for needy students at Busia Agricultural Training Centre, Busia Governor Paul Otuoma regretted that education standards in the county had dropped yet the region boasts of top scholars. He said despite notable challenges facing the sector, support measures put in place such as bursaries for bright and needy students should reciprocate the effort. “We should also be equally enthusiastic with the results we post in our schools. It is regrettable that we only managed about six plain As in last year’s Kenya Certificate of Secondary Examination,” he said. “We need to sit down as stakeholders and interrogate the way we are managing our education system to ensure that what we are investing in gives us better returns.” Otuoma said he will soon convene a meeting of education sector stakeholders to find solutions to issues pulling the county towards the deep end of the academic map. “We need to ask ourselves whether this program is reaching deserving cases and also examine the efficiency of our system,” he said. Deputy Governor Arthur Odera said as county executives, they are working on the timing of the initiative to ensure students access funds. “The purpose of this initiative is to ensure needy students access education. I hope that those in charge of its implementation will abide by the principle of helping the needy and adhere to transparency,” he said. Education and Vocational Training executive where the program is domiciled Pamela Awori committed to ensuring policies related to education are adhered to. “The task ahead is challenging, but with other stakeholders on board we will make this initiative more transparent to realise its intended purpose,” she said. The chairperson for Education Committee in the County Assembly Eunice Wandera emphasised the need for transparency in awarding of bursaries. “We will oversight the implementation of this noble program to ensure it benefits only those who deserve it,” the Bukhayo East MCA said. Applicants now have 14 days to fill out the serialised forms that are now available across the 35 ward offices. Also present during the event included CECs Beatrice Nakholi (Health and Sanitation), Andrew Meso (Roads, Transport and Public Works) Peter Odima (Lands, Housing and Urban Development), Andrew Nakitare (Public Service Management) Topista Wanyama (Finance) Paul Olung’a Ekweny (Sports and Culture) and County Attorney (Innocent Omboko). Others were the County Public Service Board Chairperson (Assumpta Obore), Members of the County Assembly Committee on Education, representatives from Kuppet, Knut, Cooperative bank and the Kenya Medical Training College Busia branch.