Having locs requires one to be committed, and there are different ways how people style locs. They range from faux locs, butterfly locs, gypsy locs, temporary locs and sister locs among others. If you opt to grow them naturally it can take a while for them to get to your desired length, but with the above-mentioned locs you can get them done at the salon. Locs can be styled in different ways. However, before you style ensure your scalp is clean and your locs are moisturized. This forms the base. Wrap and go This is an easy style to do. It is like having a cute locs bun. Space buns In this, you part your locs into two at the front and wrap the two sides at the front into buns while the back hangs loose. If possible ensure the bun is perfect. Scrunch it up This is perfect when your locs are freshly done. The scrunches you buy and maybe never use or fail to buy will be needed for this look. Have your hair laid to the desired side then choose the part you want to scrunch up. The scrunches when placed together bring out a band-like look on the locs. Curl girl For this look, your locs will have to be styled the previous night or day. Dip your locs in hot water to create the curls and dry them using a towel. Make sure your locs are moisturized. If your locs are made with human hair, have them in bantu knots and secure them into place with hair bands or rubber bands then spray a moisturizer onto them. Then let them sit for 24 hours or more. Afterwards, take the bantu knots out. For synthetic hair use flexi rods and coil your locs onto them then dip them into hot water. You make me wanna swoop To achieve this look, separate your locs into three sections, two at the front and one at the back. Have one section at the front larger than the other. Have the back tied using a hair band. Swoop the smaller over your ear and secure it into play using hair clips. Have the other front section draped toward the back of your hair and join it to the back section using a hair band and the smaller section. Bun on top This is the usual bun but this time round, you will use hair bands that will secure your locs into place. It should not be messy.