Retired Presbyterian Church of East Africa minister Timothy Njoya now wants retired President Uhuru Kenyatta to mediate in the fighting between President William Ruto and Raila Odinga. Speaking on Sunday, Njoya said the two leaders have created factions in the country, and someone needs to keep them in check. Njoya said as a former president, Uhuru is now an elderly statesman and should now be championing peace in the country. "Like now in Kenya, we have two major parties, we have the Raila Luo-Kamba football federation, and it's playing with the Ruto's Kikuyu-Kalenjin federation. That football match does not have a referee and I’m here not to play referee, but to tell them they need a referee because they are playing games without rules," the retired church minister said. Njoya who appeared on Citizen TV insisted that the fourth president would be the best mediator between the government and the opposition. He said Uhuru's record outside the country speaks for itself and he should apply what he has done for other countries in Kenya. "Uhuru would be the best referee. He's very famous in Eastern Congo as a Peace envoy. He reconciled Somalia and other places and I'm saying what he is doing, he should be doing in Kenya." Njoya added that the former head of state can only be told that by the church or his mother Mama Ngina Kenyatta. The Theologian was speaking on the relationship between the church and government in Kenya. On Thursday last week, Njoya said that the church should not be turned into President William Ruto and Azimio leader Raila Odinga's battlefields. He said by doing this, the churches are inviting what he referred to as 'religious Talibanism' in the country. His remarks come after Opposition leader Raila Odinga announced that he was set to hold a prayer rally for the IEBC outside the Anniversary Towers in Nairobi. President William Ruto has been holding Interdenominational prayer services across counties, where he, together with DP Rigathi Gachagua, have in some instances used the opportunity to hit back at the opposition.