Muhoroni MP Onyango Koyoo has disbursed Sh3.5 million to students joining Form One in national schools. The funds disbursed will benefit 61 learners in various schools, courtesy of the National Government Constituency Development Fund (NGCDF). Koyoo presented the cheques to the students at the CDF offices in Chemelil on Saturday. The MP said the students admitted to national schools have their fees fully paid by the CDF office for the next four years. He pointed out that beneficiaries are bright and needy students from poor families. The MP initiated the scheme in 2014 noting that the Muhoroni constituency has now produced a number of professionals. Koyoo said all those who qualify for professional courses at the end of four years will have their education fully sponsored. “Education will remain one of my strongest legacies when I retire from politics. I want Muhoroni to produce as many professionals as possible in the Nyanza region,” he said. He assured that university students will also continue getting support. Koyoo advised the benefices to work hard and be disciplined since their parents looked towards them. He added that time for politics is over and challenged leaders to focus and redirect their energies toward development. Koyoo said all bright but needy students will have their fees paid through the bursary scheme. “The programme is the best example of the bottom-up model where children from lowly families are uplifted through education. It is better than that of President William Ruto,” he said. Additionally, Koyoo said CDF has allocated Sh12 million for a bursary to students. Currently, applications are ongoing with beneficiaries expected to receive cheques after thorough vetting to ensure deserving students benefit. The legislator said his mission is to enable Muhoroni to produce top lawyers, doctors, engineers and other professionals through the sponsorships he has initiated. Koyoo said a number of students who have benefited through the scheme will converge for an education retreat in December to give their testimonies to upcoming ones. “We shall have an education ceremony where some of the graduates from professional departments from universities will meet here in Muhoroni,” Koyoo said. Students who benefited from the fund are pursuing courses like architecture, medicine, law and engineering. Under the bursary, the MP said his office has been tracking the performance of the students under the programme. “The statistics in the CDF office indicate that most of the sponsored students have joined universities and undertaken various courses," he said. The bursary fund is disbursed in five categories—national schools, special-course universities, vulnerable students, colleges, universities and secondary schools.