Seed has renewed its collaboration with the African Management Institute (AMI) in effort to partner with entrepreneurs to help them build thriving enterprises that transform lives. The Stanford Graduate School of Business-led initiative, announced the launch of a new scholarship fund for the initiative, which spans the African continent, and will now include francophone Africa. AMI’s Aspire Business Growth Programme provides owners of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and their senior teams with practical learning and training to power growth in their business. "This has expanded our ability to reach more SMEs across Africa, while also preparing businesses to be positioned to join Stanford Seed’s Transformation Programme for established CEOs and founders,” said Darius Teter, Seed executive director. He added that the evidence shows that small and early-stage businesses are in need of more tailored support. Designed for business owners with annual revenue of between $20,000 (Sh2.5million)  and $400,000 (Sh50.2million), the program is delivered virtually over a six-month period. The learning journey, will see participating ventures joining pan-African cohorts of 30 businesses. "Through Aspire we’re able to offer support to entrepreneurs at an earlier stage of their journey through AMI’s practical programme built specifically for African business owners.’’ Businesses under the programme will have access to AMI’s practical business tools and resources through experiential workshops, online platform access, and peer groups. Access to Stanford Seed mentors is offered to a select number of participants who operate high performing businesses that successfully complete all the programme requirements. CEO and Co-founder of AMI Rebecca Harrison says the programme is designed for small-to-medium sized businesses (SMEs). who benefit from learnings focused on five key pillars including: Strategy & Planning; Customers & Markets; Finance & Money; People & Talent and Operations Efficiency.” Originally offered as an alternative option for African businesses that do not meet the minimum requirements, AMI and Seed have opened the application process for the Aspire Business Growth Programme to businesses across the continent after a successful pilot. So far 130 businesses have enrolled in the programme. 