KRU Championship side South Coast Pirates’ coach Kevin Amiani believes his team has a chance of qualifying for the top-tier league this season. Speaking ahead of their top-of-the-table clash against log leaders and unbeaten Nondescripts on Saturday, Amiani said their immediate target is to secure a home semi-final. “The team is on the right track and we are not looking back. We are working hard to achieve our goals this season,” he said. Last year, despite securing a home semi-final, the Base Titanium and Hemmingways Watamu-sponsored team narrowly lost 20-14 to three-time Kenya Cup champions Mean Machine, something Amiani says they want to avoid this season. Amiani said they are targeting to end Nondescript’s unbeaten run in the league and called on their fans to turn up in large numbers for the game that will be played at Seacrest Diani in Kwale County. “The boys are well prepared to entertain them and give them maximum points,” he said. He added: “Playing Nondies is a big thing to us. It's a high-profile match for the team and the community at large. We are now focusing on that game in our training. We have a good plan to end their unbeaten run and reduce the 10 points gap.” In other matches, third-placed Daystar Falcons will hope to maintain their hunt for a semi-final place when they host former Kenya Cup side Western Bulls while fourth-placed Kisumu will host Kabarak University seeking to cement their play-off berth. League debutants and relegation-threatened Zetech University Oaks will face the University of Eldoret’s Trojans while bottom-of-the-log Eldoret RFC will travel to Nairobi for an encounter against United States International University-Africa’s Marshals. Former Kenya Cup side Impala will be at home against Shamas Foundation. Nondies lead the log with 39 points followed in second place by South Coast Pirates with 29 points. Daystar Falcons sit third on the table also with 29 points but with an inferior goal difference. Kisumu RFC is fourth with 26 points from eight matches.