@robertomollo3 Homa Bay police are investigating how a man accessed a High Court and poured 'miracle water' on the judge's chair to win acquittal in his murder case. In a video from a church, a clergyman is seen asking one of his congregants to explain to them in testimony how he did it. In response, the man who was a police officer in Ndhiwa before being interdicted, said he managed to get off the hook after the pastor gave him ‘miracle water’. The man used the water given to him by their pastor in the church to influence the acquittal by the judge. The man was accused of fatally shooting another person in 2017 at Riat trading centre in Kanyikela ward, Ndhiwa constituency. The man was acquitted on grounds there was no evidence linking him to the murder. The judgment was delivered on December 20 by justice Waweru Kiarie. Homa Bay DCI Commander Abed Kavoo said the suspect was transferred to Siaya county by the National Police Service after being set free. The Independent Police Oversight Authority (Ipoa) was among bodies investigating the murder. The man said he managed to get into the courtroom ahead of the judgment time and sprinkled the water on different surfaces including on the bench. The miracle water also made it easy for a security guard to open the gate and access the court compound before reaching the courtroom. On Thursday, Kavoo said they have summoned the parties concerned in the matter to record statements. Kavoo said he cannot ascertain the truth about the use of charm (miracle water) to influence the case. “We have called individuals involved in the case to record statements,” Kavoo said. Kavoo said they will ask the judge if he noticed anything suspicious in the courtroom when he was delivering his judgment. “The judge is concerned about his well-being at the court. We still believe he made his judgment with a clear state of mind,” he said. Kavoo added that the suspect will be questioned as well. DCI officers have since asked security guards at the court to increase vigilance and not to let any unauthorised person within the court premises. Kavoo also proposed the installation of CCTV cameras in area of the court. “This will help us get video footage of what transpired and establish the truth,” he said. (Edited by V.Graham)