The Ministry of Health has urged counties to invest in primary healthcare interventions to bring services and well-being closer to communities. The ministry also said the government will invest more than Sh350  billion towards funding Primary Healthcare interventions. This comes as health sector stakeholders convened in Nairobi on Wednesday to review the state of primary healthcare measures and performance in Kenya, and explore strategies to build on the investments so far realized for greater impacts. The workshop brought together local and global stakeholders to learn from the Kenyan experience and discuss potential next steps in the future of PHC measurements in Kenya. State Department for Public Health and Professional Standards PS Dr Josephine Mburu emphasised the role of primary healthcare as a backbone to the attainment of Universal Health Coverage. "The ministry has prioritised PHC through very strategic investments. We have a strong community strategy that has seen over 90 per cent of community units having community health volunteers,” Mburu said. “We have dedicated efforts towards establishing primary care networks in all counties, and developed an electronic community health information system now in use countrywide among other initiatives.” Mburu said such initiatives are aimed at making sure that all Kenyans including the vulnerable populations such as the poor, orphans, PWDs and those faced with discrimination due to gender and age have access to quality healthcare services. The PS also said that the government has invested in the digitisation of healthcare services and innovative initiatives such as telemedicine for the efficient delivery of healthcare services to Kenyans. According to the World Health Organisation, PHC addresses the broader determinants of health and focuses on the comprehensive and interrelated aspects of physical, mental and social health and well-being. WHO notes that PHC is the most inclusive, equitable, cost-effective and efficient approach to enhancing people’s physical and mental health, as well as social well-being.