Homa Bay High Court has suspended the collection of revenue from residents until a case filed by a trader is heard and determined. The court issued the order that no one should remit revenues until the case challenging a new system of tax collection is concluded. Trader Evans Otieno filed the case to oppose the digital revenue collection system that was introduced by Governor Gladys Wanga's administration. The county government introduced the system after realizing that money was getting lost. The new method was introduced after a recommendation from a task force that was formed to give guidance on how the devolved unit could improve on the revenue collection. Former Laikipia Governor Nderitu Murithi offered technical advice to the county on how it can realise its financial goals. But Otieno, who was not happy with the new system moved to court to challenge the process in November last year. He listed county government, county secretary Bernard Muok and Safaricom Limited as the first, second and third respondents respectively. Judge Kiarie W Kiarie issued the order and certified the matter as urgent. In his orders, he issued an injunction prohibiting the county government through their agents from collecting any levies, taxes, permits or any other form of payment from any trader. He said that no one should be victimised until when he will determine the case. “Pending the hearing and determination an interim order is hereby granted of mandatory injunction directing the respondents either by themselves, agents servants or employees,” the court order read. Respondents were directed to produce, file and serve Otieno with information on how they advertised the public participation in the new system of revenue collection when it was done, the criteria used and the minutes before the new system was introduced. The case will be heard from March 23. Otieno claimed that the method is discriminatory and does not consider elderly people who don’t know how to operate M-Pesa services. He also claimed that public participation was not conducted effectively before the method was introduced. Homa Bay government has been banking on a digital revenue collection system as a way of developing the region. Its target is Sh1 billion at the end of this year. The government has since established a revenue board that will deliver this dream. The team is tasked with coming up with measures aimed to improve collection. “The establishment of the board is part of our agenda to meet the Sh1 billion revenue targets annually. The administration depends on the collection to achieve its development dreams,” Wanga said. Wanga said Homa Bay has many untapped revenue collection streams which can be exploited to meet the needs of residents and service delivery by the government. The board is expected to make the county have optimal revenue collection and enforce laws relating to revenue collection and ensure effective and efficient revenue administration.