Politics gives the impression that dumbing down and acting a fool is needed to win over the electorate. Clownery at its finest is witnessed during rallies, as politicians and aspirants put on their best show with their dancing and word play. Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua appears to fit right into the class clown category, with the media doing little to help his overall public image. He does himself no favours with his pronouncements. His most recent viral utterances are his direct address to a local musician on his polygamous status. His contribution to the national politics is how to get away with polygamy, while his rumoured rival is busy making both local and international strides. Tribal politics have been the centre of Kenya's national politics since independence. Being a tribal kingpin means controlling how and when a particular tribe will make a move and consolidate power. This is a highly coveted role that sees men do whatever they deem necessary to achieve the title. Gachagua's antics beat me. If and how they will get him the title is amusing to watch. Musalia Mudavadi is thriving in his new role as Prime Cabinet Secretary. According to a recent interview, he is keen to restructure parastatals as part of his assigned role to co-ordinate and supervise ministries and state departments. He has also had talks with Kenya Private Sector Alliance on possible areas of partnership with the government. This is what the Deputy President is up against. President William Ruto is on record telling politicians the campaign period is over and it is time to work. His deputy might be hard of hearing. Someone in his camp needs to have a sit down with him and guide his next moves, if he is to be relevant by the end of his first term. The President's two-day Nyanza tour can be translated as his show of goodwill and peace offering towards his political rivals. He pledged government support in the development of their local economy. Be it genuine or not, this will go a long way in his bid to integrate power. We all know by now that President Ruto is a political genius. His moves have to, therefore, be taken with a grain of salt. He has proven time and again that he plays the long game. Be that as it may, his visit is a good move towards maintaining peace in the country as we wait for Azimio team's next move in line with the election exposè. They say the end of one election is the beginning of another. While true, there needs to be a pause. A time for the political class to take off their clown costumes, have them cleaned and aired out as they put in some form of work for the electorate. Even the best circus takes a break to replenish. The rest is as important to the clowns as it is to the audience.