Former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has appealed to President William Ruto to intervene and have his money held in frozen accounts released by the courts. The former county boss said he, like Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua, was victimised by the Jubilee regime for supporting his presidential bid and was falsely accused in court. "In the former government, the injustice that was committed to you, to our lovely deputy president, to me and others who supported you, people were falsely accused in court," he said. "When you took the oath of office, all the injustice ended. Gachagua had his money that was unjustly held released, we have seen cases dropped against some other people," Sonko added. He was speaking on Wednesday during the launch of the Nairobi River Commission in Korogocho, Nairobi. In attendance were the President, the DP and other elected leaders including Kamukunji MP Yusuf Hassan. Development partners and commissioners of the Nairobi River Commission were also present. Sonko said his supporters stood with him in prayers and he also had graft cases against him dropped even though the Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji has filed an appeal. He said as a result of the appeal, the money in his frozen accounts in relation to the graft cases is still in the custody of the courts. "Mimi naomba mheshimiwa rais kuwe na usawa Kenya. Mimi niko tayari kufanya kazi na kusaidina na serikali. Ile pesa yangu nyingi Uhuru Kenyatta alishika basi nisaidie hata mimi niregeshewe kama Gachagua niweze kusaidia serikali tusaidie hawa vijana," Sonko said. (I ask for equality your excellency President. I'm ready to work with the government, help me like you helped Gachagua to get back the money Uhuru Kenyatta took from me so we can help the youth) On February 6, 2020, Justice Luka Kimaru froze ten of Sonko's accounts holding around Sh18 million. The funds are at Equity Bank, Diamond Trust Bank and in another account at Cooperative Bank of Kenya. Sonko was in December 2022 acquitted by a magistrate for lack of evidence in Sh20 million case involving allegations of corruption and money laundering. The DPP, however, expressed frustration with the ruling, claiming that the court relied on extraneous factors in its decision to acquit Sonko and his co-accused. Sonko had been charged alongside Anthony Otieno Ombok alias Jamal and ROG Security ltd but the trial magistrate acquitted them on a technicality saying the charge sheet presented was defective.