Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro has launched a programme that will see parents with students in day public schools in the constituency only pay slightly above Sh1,000 per term. The Kiharu Masomo Bora programme will cover all 60 day schools within the constituency. Beneficiaries include day scholars in day and boarding secondary schools. It will cover 14,000 learners and will pay Sh5,000 for students in schools that charge Sh10,500 annually. Students in schools that charge Sh12,000 annually will receive Sh7,000, which will leave parents with the lessened burden of paying slightly more than Sh1,000 per term. The programme will cover fees allocated for this year but parents with arrears from last year will have to clear them. While launching the programme at Mugoiri Mixed Secondary School, MP Nyoro said the programme is aimed at ensuring students continued with their studies uninterrupted. The event was attended by at least 10 MPs. The idea, he said, was conceptualised mid-last year after realising that teachers were being forced to pay more for supplies due to inconsistencies in fee payments by parents. “We did our mathematics and realised some of the schools were planning to hike the fees to cover the rising cost of commodities. We then started seeking partners as the NG-CDF kitty is limited,” Nyoro said. There will also be a feeding programme in which all day scholars will enjoy tea or porridge and lunch, including Saturdays. The feeding programme is being implemented in partnership with the Food For Education organisation, which feeds millions of hungry learners globally. The menu will include rice with beans for three days and githeri for another three days. “The programme will procure cooking oil, maize, rice, beans and sugar while the Sh1,000 paid by parents and will go towards paying the chef and other extra costs,” the MP said. The NG-CDF will also allocate Sh60 million to revamp infrastructure such as laboratories in day schools. Another Sh10 million will go towards procurement of revision books for all public day schools in the constituency. “We have realised that being free on Saturdays exposes students to immorality and have urged all teachers to allow students to be attending school to keep them busy,” Nyoro said. Food For Education representative Nick Daniels said subsiding education in the constituency will spark a revolution across the country and the continent. “One of the things that makes a country rich is education. Ndindi understands this,” he said. Daniels said school feeding is a global challenge, lauding the MP for setting an example to eradicate classroom hunger. “I believe there are only a few people about whom it can be said, ‘he changed my life’ but thousands of learners will remember Ndindi for changing their lives,” Daniels said. MP Nyoro has already tiled all 112 public primary schools.