Pretty much every tree you come across in Israel has a dedicated dripper. With 60 per cent of the country being a desert, it has had to use various innovation methods to get water for household use and irrigation. Over 85 per cent of the water used in the country is recycled and the agriculture is supported by 45 per cent of treated sewage and brackish water, which is desalinated but not safe for drinking. Olga Selfner, the Water Authority director's adviser, told journalists in Jerusalem advance planning is crucial. “All together, in an average year, we have a natural replenishment from rain of about 1.2 billion cubic metres, which is about 50 per cent of what we need today,” he said, adding that the gap will only widen in the future. “So, when we plan for the future, we plan for water shortages.” She added that they can produce 20 per cent extra to export to Jordan and Palestine as agreed in their peace agreements from the combination of desalinated and ground water and from the Sea of Galilee. In 2021, Israel had a population of nine million consuming 2.380 MCM, and it estimates the number will rise to 16 million in 2050, pushing the water uptake to 3,739 MCM. Experts at the Israel Governmental Agency for Water and Sewerage said long-term planning of the country’s water economy is based on estimation of future climatologic and hydrologic conditions, including prolonged periods of dry years and decrease in natural water availability due to climate change effects. To close the gap, authorities are pushing for water conservation and efficient water use, development of artificial water resources, seawater desalination for potable use, and for irrigation use, treatment and reuse of wastewater, as well as brackish water desalination. The process entails taking seawater from the Mediterranean and treating it through the reverse osmosis, which entails taking the salt out of the water to make it drinkable. Israel is also using various analytical tools for simulation of future water balance. These include the water evaluation and planning system, which focusses on water demand scenarios, regional water needs, hydrological scenarios, climate change trends and policy for water resources preservation. Regarding seawater desalination, they have a capacity of 600 million cubic metres installed, and by 2025, they are supposed to develop 300 million more. There are five desalination facilities that supply drinking water. A lot of research is done, including at DeserTech Project, an innovation centre for climate change with emphasis on desert environment. It looks at extreme climate, water scarcity, land degradation, remote and marginal living and how the challenges can be solved through water technology and desert agriculture. To do this, the centre has developed the Climate Impact Intelligence Platform, which can forecast storms, heatwaves, frosts, droughts and floods 1hr to 120 days ahead or a week to six months ahead. This helps with season planning, logistics and supply chains, insurance and financing (investments and loans). With innovation and these measures in place, Israel is able to irrigate the Negev desert with recycled sewerage water. The country has invested heavily in water, pumping an average of $1.3 billion every year, even though the sector is closed, meaning all the investments have to be covered by the tariffs. With the recurrent flooding and droughts in Kenya, authorities here have lessons to draw from their Israeli counterparts. Kenya really doesn't face a water shortage challenge. It is a water management problem.