Soccer giants St Anthony’s Kitale will headline the annual St. Mary’s Yala Open tournament on Saturday and Sunday. Popularly known as the Solidarity Boys, St Anthony’s Kitale will face usual suspects Kisumu Day, Butula Boys, Magadi, hosts Yala and upcoming Kasagam. St. Antony's lost the national secondary schools title last year and will be seeking to reclaim it this year. Tournament director Kenneth Mukok said he expects about 30 schools to participate in the tournament ahead of Term One games. Other schools which have confirmed participation include Maranda, Sawagongo, Chemelil Academy, Maliera and Nyamninia. “We expect more schools to confirm their participation by Friday. This is usually a very competitive tournament,” said Mukok, who coaches Yala’s rugby team. At the same time, the annual Agoro Sare tournament will take place this weekend. Among the top teams that will take part are Maseno School, Kiabianga, Kisii School, Homa Bay High, Nyanchwa Boys, Kisumu Day, Manyatta and Kobala secondary, according to the coordinator Steve Okumu. The tournament will feature rugby 7’s and 15’s basketball, hockey, soccer, volleyball, handball and racquet games. The Homa Bay School and Kobala Secondary annual tournaments have been cancelled. At the same time, the Nyanza region workshop on officiating, coaching, and laws of the game will be held from February 16-18, according to the Nyanza regional director of education Nelson Sifuna. Sifuna said the regional sports office has liaised with various federations to assist with facilitation. The disciplines to be covered are hockey, basketball, handball, rugby, athletics, netball, football, volleyball, swimming and racquet games. “The workshop is to assist all participants to get updated with the current laws of the game and requirements to participate in Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Association activities,” said Sifuna in a circular. Each participant will pay Sh2, 500 which will cater for facilitation, certification and other logistics. He added that schools will take care of participation fees, meals and accommodation for participants. Ends