Commonwealth Games 10,000m silver medalist Daniel Simiu is optimistic of a splendid outing when he makes his World Cross Country Championships in Bathurst, Australia on Saturday. Simiu said he has prepared well for the event, observing that making Team Kenya to an international event is no mean feat. While insisting he doesn't want to be just another participant, Simiu added: “I will run to the best of my knowledge. Earning a ticket to Bathurst was not easy and I will do my best to fly the Kenyan flag come Saturday." He also wants to atone for his missed chance at the Commonwealth Games, where he  lost the 10,000m title to Uganda's Jacob Kiplimo. “It is my first time to represent Kenya in cross country and I hope that my training in Kigari will pay off. My work is to do what I can at my best. I had good preparations. What is left is for God to do miracles. I trust in him to strengthen me on that day,” said Simiu. Simiu said he is ready to put last year behind him, revealing how he was distracted after joining Kenya Police Training College in Kiganjo. “I had many challenges while in college in Kiganjo, hindering my training for major events. Now that I am done with Police training, I hope my performances will improve,” says Simiu, who was deployed to Kericho Police station after graduating from Kiganjo. The Samburu-born but Iten-based runner — under coach Erick Kogo — will once again face Kiplimo, who headlines the Ugandan sextet alongside defending champion Joshua Cheptegei, a two-time world champion over 10,000m. Simiu will be in the company of two-time world cross country champion Geoffrey Kamworor, former world half marathon record holder Kibiwott Kandie, national champion Sebastien Sawe, Emmanuel Kiprop and Nicholas Kimeli. Team Kenya to Bathurst Senior men’s 10km: Sebastian Sawe, Daniel Simiu, Kibiwott Kandie, Emmanuel Kiprop, Nicholas Kimeli, Geoffrey Kamworor Senior women’s 10km: Beatrice Chebet, Grace Loibach, Edinah Jebitiok, Agnes Jebet, Cintia Chepng'eno, Emily Chebet U-20 men’s 8km: Ismael Kirui, Reynold Kipkorir, Dennis Kipkirui, Daniel Kinyanjui, Dennis Mutuku, Charles Rotich U-20 women's 6km: Faith Cherotich, Pamela Kosgei, Joyline Chepkemoi, Nancy Cherop, Marion Chepng’etich, Diana Cherotich