As we go about our daily hustle, whether employed or self-employed, it's worth questioning why we do it. We spend our wakeful hours working hard to make money, but to what end? Are we looking for money to make our lives comfortable? Are we making money to take care of those we love, such as family? Are we doing it because there's no choice but to work? Lots of times, we get so engrossed with the day-to-day grind that we forget why we do it. Money by itself is not a bad thing. Without it, we can neither uplift ourselves nor anybody else. Good deeds require money to make them happen. You cannot fulfil your dreams without money. Contrary to what is often attributed to the Bible, the good book does not say money is bad. Instead, the scriptures warn about the love of money being the root of all evil. In their greed to accumulate money, some people landed themselves in miserable situations because of unlawful acts. "I am convinced that material things can contribute a lot to making one's life pleasant," David Rockefeller, of the famous Rockefeller family, once said. "But, basically, if you do not have very good friends and relatives who matter to you, life will be really empty and sad, and material things cease to be important." Warren Buffet, another billionaire businessman, was asked to state the one thing he could not buy. "Time," he responded. "I mean, I can buy anything I want basically, but I can't buy time." Time includes moments spent building relationships with family and friends. With the modern world's busy schedules, making time for loved ones calls for deliberate effort. Getting time for family and friends is something that should not be left to chance. What can we do to stay in touch with family and friends amidst busy schedules? 1. Get proactive: Set aside times of the day when you are with your close family. Work-related calls and emails can wait for your response later. Initiate contact with relatives and friends you have not connected with recently. 2. Plan activities together: A family that does things together stays together. Spend time with your children. Having a family dinner in the evening is a great opportunity to catch up on each other's day. Research shows children in happy families do better academically. 3. Keep communicating: Sharing thoughts, feelings and problems with those close to you helps to keep relationships strong and shows your support for each other. Communicate often on both big issues and daily trivia. 4. Make time for friends: Being on good terms with people outside your immediate family is actually healthy for you. Arrange a day out to meet your friends. Suggest dates and make plans. Get your family involved in school, sporting or other community groups. 5. Cut screen time: Avoid using electronic devices when you are with other people. Put your phone away, close your laptop, turn off the television and just talk.