Following a three-year hiatus due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the World Cross Country Championships returns on Saturday in Bathurst, Australia. Team Kenya will be hoping for improved fortunes after an indifferent display in Aarhus, Denmark three years ago, where they lost the overall title to Ethiopia despite stellar individual performances. Hellen Obiri won the senior women's 10km title while Beatrice Chebet bagged the junior women's title in the 6km race. Following a 19-hour journey from Nairobi via Doha, the team arrived on Tuesday and started putting final touches to their preparations. Head coach Julius Kira said they are relishing the challenge of competing against the best in the world. "We arrived safely and we have done light training. The weather conditions are just like back home, very hot. But we have adjusted accordingly and we can't wait for Saturday,” observed Kirwa. The long-serving coach said they have surveyed the course, famously known as Mount Panorama circuit, which has steep hills and looping corners. “Unlike four years ago, we have done our homework and we are looking forward to a good race and victories for our athletes," he added. Kenya will be represented in all the five categories; 6km junior women, 8km junior men, 10km senior men and women and the mixed relay race. Team Kenya will be banking on two-time world cross country champion Geoffrey Kamworor in the senior men's 10km race alongside Commonwealth Games medalists Kibiwott Kandie, Nicholas Kimeli and Daniel Simiu as they attempt to wrestle the title from defending champion, Joshua Cheptegei of Uganda, who is backed up by Commonwealth Games 5000m champion Jacob Kiplimo in what is expected to be an explosive encounter. Kamworor said he is fully fit after being sidelined for two years with injuries. "I am in good shape. I trained well in Kigari for the past one month and am looking forward to what will be an exciting race come Saturday,” he said. In the senior women's 10km race, Africa, Commonwealth and Diamond League champion Beatrice Chebet will spearhead Kenya's quest for the coveted title. Chebet, who was given a wild card by Athletics Kenya, will have two-time champion Emily Chebet and Agnes Ngetich for company alongside Grace Loibach and 1500m specialist Edinah Jebitok. They however face an acid test in the shape of world 10,000m champion Letensenbet Gidey alongside compatriots Gete Alemayehu, Tsigie Gebreselama and Fotyen Tesfaye as well as Eritrea's Rahel Daniel . Burundi's Francine Niyonsaba and Uganda's Stella Chesang are also in contention. Ishmael Kirui and Reynold Kipkorir will be aiming for glory in the under 20km race . The team also includes Dennis Kipkirui and Daniel Kinyanjui, both of whom have international racing experience. Ethiopia — winners of the past two team titles, and three of the past four U20 men’s titles — will be tough to beat. In the women's category, world under-20 steeplechase champion Faith Cherotich will be hoping to replicate her performance on track at the event. She will have Nancy Cherop, the world U20 3000m bronze medallist, for company, along with world U20 steeplechase fifth-place finisher Pamela Kosgei and Joyline Chepkemoi. World 3000m steeplechase record holder Beatrice Chepkoech will steer the team in the mixed relay.