In bid to have access to specialised assistance, persons living with disability across Kirinyaga county have been urged to register for the new Disability cards. Stakeholders say the card will enable them to among other things transact with ease and enjoy benefits granted to PWDs such as single permit business waivers, assistive devices and access to efficient services in government offices. Kirinyaga Deputy Governor David Githanda on Tuesday said that the Ann Waiguru-led administration has so far registered 12,000 persons living with various disabilities. He encouraged those who are yet to enlist to do so as their recognition will greatly assist the county to efficiently plan for their needs. "In order to have accurate data to guide our planning and resource allocation for projects and programmes for PWDs, we have been carrying out assessment and registration for them. So far, we have registered more than 12,000 and I’m appealing to those who are yet to be assessed to visit Kerugoya County Referral Hospital,” he said. Githanda was speaking when he represented Governor Waiguru during an event to commemorate the International Day of Persons Living with Disability. The day is celebrated globally on December 3 but it was not marked on the scheduled day at the county level due to unavoidable reasons. In bid to encourage self-reliance through uptake of  business ventures, the DG said that the county government has waived payments for single business permits to more than 300 PWDs. Moreover, he noted that through the Wezesha Kirinyaga Agriculture Empowerment Project, PWDs have been integrated in various income generating farming activities. The deputy governor said in order to offer efficient services, the county has since adopted the Huduma Centre operating model where all county services are placed under one roof at the county headquarters in Kutus  so as to provide easier accessibility of services to the vulnerable group. In addition, he said the county has distributed assistive devices such as wheelchairs, white canes, hearing devices and other items to more than 1,500 county residents. The county’s second in command further assured the PWDs of the government's continued commitment in addressing their plight through devising friendly bills and policies that will uplift their lives. While urging housing investors to install the necessary equipment such as lifts, elevators and romps for easier access of buildings by PWDs, Githanda said Building Accessibility Bill was adopted by the county  assembly last year though is yet to become law. County‘s Gender CEC Millicent Ngari noted that the county has registered persons with 14 types of disabilities. She called on parents, guardians and care takers not to be ashamed of their kin's disabled state but instead come out and ask for help as her office is ready to take up such cases. She further hailed the county assembly for allocating Sh6.8 million to cater for the purchasing of assistive devices for PWDs. Zipporah Miringu from the National Council for Persons with Disability (NCPD) said the agency will continue partnering with the county government for the sake of proper care of the group. She further called on the other abled Kenyans to ease PWDs' lives by treating them with fairness and utmost respect. MCA Beatrice Mitaro who represents PWDs in the county assembly said she has since championed for the creation of disability friendly institutions within the county which she noted will come in handy in offering specialised education to the people abled differently. Her counterpart Harrison Kariuki who equally represents the group in the local assembly called on the government to improve services to PWDs  in various  areas such as  health and education. He urged the state to increase special schools in bid to ensure access to education for all and in accordance with the law. Kariuki further advocated for fair Justice dispensation and employment opportunities for the group.