Governor Wesley Rotich of Elgeyo Marakwet says his county will focus on preventive healthcare to deal with emerging diseases before they blow up and turn costly to manage. Rotich says his county has deployed health officers to all parts of the county to work with communities on sensitisation for early testing and prevention of diseases. He spoke as more than 2,000 people turned up at Kapkoi Health Centre in Kamariny ward for free medical screening organised by the county government. Residents trooped to the health centre where staff from the health department had a long day as they attended to residents who came to seek medical assistance. "This is the first medical camp and I am happy our people turned up in large numbers. We will replicate this in the remaining 19 wards. My focus is on disease prevention. We can save cost of treating our people and their lives too when diseases are detected early enough,"Rotich said. He commended the Community Health Volunteers (CHVs) whom he termed as his health foot soldiers for mobilising people from the community to attend the free medical screening. The governor also thanked Bishop Dominic Kimengich of Eldoret Catholic diocese for supporting the county's health department through the faith-based health centres n the region. He announced that the county would send more personnel to faith-based health facilities. "I will ensure that this relationship between the church and my administration is strengthened further,” the governor said. Among the cases screened included hypertension, diabetes, cervical and prostate cancer and TB. Others were ear nose and throat ailments, orthopedic cases, eye screening, HIV testing and counselling and blood donation. Resident David Kipkiyai was among those who benefited from the exercise when he was diagnosed with high blood pressure following a persistent headache he had always wished away and relied on self medication. "I have been relying on drugs from over the counter to relieve pain. I have not  reported  to a doctor.  Today I was told I have a high blood pressure. The doctors gave me drugs. The county has done well to come and check on us,"Kipkoyai said. Bishop Kimengich said the  governor was a practical leader who was ready to deal with challenges affecting residents. Rotich noted the support the county had received from the National Syndemic Diseases Control Council formerly National Aids Control Council (formerly NACC), AMPHAT and other partners. (Edited by V. Graham)