Organisers of bullfighting matches and enthusiasts have asked the Kakamega government to put up stadiums for the sport to guarantee the safety of spectators. This follows a growing number of cases where spectators have been injured by fighting bulls while some have ended up dead. The most recent case is the death of 26-year-old Bramwel Andugu earlier this week. He was gored to his early death as he watched a bullfighting match in Malinya, Ikolomani, in Kakamega county. Witnesses said one of the bulls charged towards the crowd, fatally injuring Andugu. The man was rushed to Kakamega Teaching and Referral Hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries. His father Maurice Andugu and widow Joyce Andugu want the event organisers held accountable for negligence and poor safety measures. Last year, Robert Atema, 39, of Shirumba village in Ikolomani was run over by a bull as he watched the local sport. There have been growing concerns from bullfighting enthusiasts over their safety during these matches. There have been calls for the county administration to set up stadiums to enable spectators to watch the fights from the safety of a well-built and designed bullfighting stadium. Moses Khalamu, a fighter bull owner and an enthusiast of the game, said it is important to have special stadiums set up so members of the public get to watch the sport from safety. “Like in the US, the stadiums are well designed to separate the fighting area and the spectator area. With that, the safety of everyone will be guaranteed. But the way we do it right now is very dangerous even for us bull owners," he said. Normally during any local bull fighting match in Kakamega, the bulls will be placed at the centre while spectators stand around them to cheer them on. This makes it almost impossible for someone to escape if a bull charges at the crowd. The lucky few get to climb trees and buildings around the match area from where they get to watch. “We are asking our leaders to put up these stadiums for us because this is a sport we all love," Muya Silas said.