The National Climate Change Council could start its work soon following the nomination of four officials. Emily Waitha, John Kioli, Umar Omar and Dr George Outa have been nominated to the council. The names of the nominees have been submitted to the Speaker of the Senate and listed in the February 14 Order Paper. The Climate Change Act, 2016 states that the council will be chaired by the President, with the deputy helping him. “The Cabinet Secretary for the time being responsible for environment and climate change affairs shall be the secretary to the council,” the Act says. The council will provide overarching functions of the national climate change coordination mechanism and council. It will approve and oversee the implementation of the National Climate Change Action Plan and advise national and county governments on legislative, policy and other measures necessary for climate change response. The council has also been tasked with approving a national gender and intergenerational-responsive public education awareness strategy and implementation programme. The Climate Change 2016 Act also tasks the council with providing guidance on the review, amendment and harmonisation of sectoral laws and policies and administering the Climate Change Fund established under the Act. It also set targets for the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. The National Climate Change Council is comprised of not more than nine members who will be appointed by the President. It is composed of Environment CS Soipan Tuya, National Treasury CS Njuguna Ndung'u, Energy CS Davis Chirchir and Council of Governors chairperson Anne Waiguru. Other members of the council include a representative of the private sector nominated by the agency representing the largest number of institutions in the private sector and a representative of civil society. Others are a representative of the marginalised community who has knowledge and experience in matters relating to indigenous knowledge, and a representative of academia nominated by the Commission for University Education. Save for the CSs and the Council of Governors chairperson, other appointees must have expertise and experience in matters of climate change, economy, finance, law, environment and public administration and should be approved by Parliament. Extreme weather has jolted the state to move with speed and implement climate change laws. The country is currently grappling with drought following four failed rain seasons and a poorly distributed 2022 short rain season. Scientists have warned that the fifth season might also fail. The drought has pushed millions into hunger and killed thousands of livestock, especially among pastoralist communities. The number of people requiring humanitarian assistance stands at 4.35 million, based on the 2022 Long Rains Food and Nutritional Security Assessment Report. On Thursday last week, the National Steering Committee on Drought Response said it had raised Sh650 million towards drought mitigation. According to the latest report from the National Drought Management Authority, Kilifi, Mandera, Marsabit, Samburu, Turkana, Wajir, Isiolo, Kitui and Kajiado counties are in the alarm stage while Embu, Narok, Taita Taveta, Makueni, Meru, Nyeri and Lamu are in the alert drought phase. The drought continues to worsen in 21 of the 23 arid and semi-arid counties. Besides drought, the country has since 2010 been grappling with rising water levels in lakes in Rift Valley and Lake Victoria. Rising lakes have submerged riparian areas, farmlands and infrastructure. Kenya’s economy is largely dependent on climate-sensitive sectors such as tourism and rain-fed agriculture, both susceptible to climate change and extreme weather events. The government now seeks to strengthen laws guiding climate change. In 2016 Kenya ratified the Paris Agreement. The country has since submitted the Nationally Determined Contributions, with a commitment to reduce emissions by 32 per cent against a business-as-usual scenario by 2030. The NDC also commits to enhancing resilience in all sectors of the economy. The National Climate Change Action Plan 2018-22, is a five-year plan that helps Kenya adapt to climate change and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Kenya seeks to reduce emissions by 32 per cent by 2030. Agriculture, energy, manufacturing, transport, waste and forestry are some of the sectors the government intends to use to curb emissions. The country needs $62 billion (Sh6.710 trillion) to mitigate and adapt to the impact of climate change between 2020 and 2030. Aware that forests will play a key role, the government has pledged to increase its cover by growing 15 billion trees by 2032 at a cost of Sh500 billion. The move seeks to restore 10.6 million hectares of degraded landscape. Forests regulate ecosystems, protect biodiversity, play an integral part in the carbon cycle, support livelihoods and help drive sustainable growth. Results generated from the recent National Forest Resources Assessment 2021 indicate that Kenya has 7,180,000.66 ha of tree cover, representing 12.13 per cent of the total area. From the assessment, up to 37 counties out of the 47 (79 per cent) have a tree cover percentage greater than the constitutional set target of 10 per cent. In addition, the results reveal that the country has a tree cover per capita index of 1,507.48m2. The findings indicate that the country has 5,226,191.79 ha of national forest cover, representing 8.83 per cent of the total area. The report shows the distribution of forests and tree cover across the 47 counties.