After thrashing Mathare United 5-0 at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Wednesday, Kenya Police head coach Francis Baraza has warned his charges against arrogance and complacency. Baraza expressed concern that their recent brilliant run of three back-to-back victories would get into the heads of his players and jolt their progress. The huge win fired the law enforcers to the fifth spot on the log with 21 points, rekindling their aspirations for a maiden title. Clifton Miheso opened the floodgates with a brace in the 12th and 40th minutes of the one-sided encounter. Elvis Rupia extended the lead with a brilliant 52nd-minute effort before Duke Abuya and Clinton Kinanga sealed Mathare's fate with goals in the  63rd and 88th minutes respectively. “We had a brilliant game this afternoon and, of course, the win has boosted our morale ahead of our next fixtures,” Baraza said. “I can't say we beat a weak team. They are a good side that deserves to be in the league. We just played well and I commend my boys for displaying great character in the match," he added. Despite the good run, the gaffer who has been with the side for less than two months says they are not excited about their prospects of clinching their maiden title just yet. “It's still too early to start talking about the title. We will continue to take one match at a time and, hopefully, we can secure a strategic position to keep us in contention.” He believes his charges have finally begun to read from the same script after a torrid start to the season. “I'm delighted that the players are improving with every game. All the departments functioned properly. We hope to accumulate more points as we proceed.” As Baraza celebrated his achievement on Wednesday afternoon, his opposite number at Mathare United, Boniface Omondi, said he was a disappointed man. “It was another disappointing afternoon for us. Suffering two consecutive losses is a huge setback but we live to fight another day," Omondi said dejectedly. He attributed their struggles in the competition thus far to a squad that was hurriedly assembled only a week before the season's kick-off. “We have a relatively young squad that deserves more matches to reach the required level of maturity. They are gradually learning their ropes and I believe all will be well before long. We can't give up just yet. Elsewhere, AFC Leopards rekindled their title aspirations this season with a hard-fought 1-0 win over Vihiga Bullets at Nyayo Stadium. Talanta registered an emphatic 3-0 win over Wazito at Muhoroni Stadium in Kisumu.