 Kenya Police head coach Francis Baraza has urged his charges to step on the gas peddle, asserting that  the  Kenyan Premier League title is now within their reach. The law enforcers kept their hopes for a maiden top-flight silverware alive after pipping Bidco United 1-0 at Nyayo Stadium on Sunday, thanks to Elvis Rupia’s stunner on the stroke of halftime. Police have now prevailed seven times in a row in the ten games they have played since Baraza took over as coach in December. “My players put on yet another incredible demonstration of character this afternoon. Once more, they prevailed over formidable opponents,” Baraza said. “With this kind of performances, I think the rest of the season holds some wonderful things for us. But as I just indicated, we’ll still play our matches one at a time. Our goal in every game is to score as many points as possible. As a coach, I constantly feel the need to triumph in every game.” Baraza was counting his blessings as Anthony Akhulia, his opponent, lamented their sixth defeat of the season. “Another terrible afternoon has come our way. If we had seized the chances we were given during the game, we would have won the match candidly. To leave games with positive outcomes, we must be more committed and dedicated,” Akhulia said. The outcome has the law enforcers fifth on the log with 24 points, four adrift of leaders Nzoia Sugar. The Bungoma-based millers toppled Gor Mahia from the summit of the table following their goalless draw with AFC Leopards at Sudi Stadium. Nzoia top the table with 28 points, one ahead of K’Ogalo, who caught up with them the previous day after defeating Nairobi City Stars 1-0. Nzoia Sugar head coach Salim Babu has instructed his team to keep their sights firmly fixed on the title despite the threat Gor Mahia pose to their ambitions of a first top-flight championship. “We are aware that Gor are experienced, having won the KPL title a record 19 times. However, we are just as determined as they are to win the title,” Babu said. The gaffer said that their outstanding performance in the tough league has helped spur their determination. “Our first plan was to stay away from the relegation zone. But as the season goes on, we are growing more and more assured. I won’t rule out the possibility of us winning the crown,” said Babu. At Kakamega’s Bukhungu Stadium, Ulinzi Stars defeated the financially-crippled Vihiga Bullets 1-0.