Is it just me or do we get hit by the sudden realisation that as we grow older, so do our parents? I swear every year, it dawns on me that my parents are also turning a year older. I hate to admit it, but I always remember their birthdays at the very last minute because let's face it, January birthdays are the worst. My parents have birthdays on January 18 and January 20, and they are both well into their fifties now. Fifty is not as old as you can imagine, but I look at them in pictures from when I was younger and there is a significant difference there. But then I realise they are just the same two folks who raised me and fought many of my battles growing up. And for a minute, just a slight moment of human weakness, I realise that they will one day not be around to help me with battles I would want help fighting in the future. We Africans are like that. We don't like to think of death because it would be like tempting fate or something like that. I was watching the requiem mass of Prof George Magoha, who was the Cabinet Secretary for Education, and I realised that that man really lived a great life. He was eulogised as such, too. I was particularly moved by his son's tribute to him, which prompted me to write this article after a spell of writer's block. He spoke of his father the way I imagine I might talk of my father and mother when the good Lord decides to take them. I had wondered before if the fact that his life was a different one as a child because his father was a 'gigantic' figure. But then I realised that most of us, at some point, see our folks as great figures in our lives as well. They are like ethereal beings or small gods on earth to us, and we often don't even recognise that they are individuals first before they are our folks. For the longest time, I just saw my parents like that, and it kind of made it hard to see that they were also just normal human beings. They make mistakes and they struggle as individuals, but we cannot change the fact that to us, they are just our folks, and we will love them regardless. And they will love us the same (if not more than we can truly fathom). Listening to Michael Magoha eulogise his father, I realised that. At the end of the day, our fathers, whoever they are out in the world, are, first and foremost, our fathers, and our mothers are first and foremost mothers to us before they are anything else to the world. So I grow older and wiser (hopefully), and I begin to see the chinks in the armour of both my folks, and suddenly, I see them as individuals rather than the perfect human beings I had pictured them to be, but I will still feel the same way about them. Rather than being scared to not have them around as I get older, I will appreciate that they are still here and they still have the energy to fight some of my battles.