Gor Mahia head coach, Jonathan McKinstry, has challenged his players to put in their best performance in their Kenyan Premier League match against Wazito this afternoon at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. K'Ogalo have 30 points from 13 games, and a victory over the struggling 'Moneybags' will propel them to the top of the log. This season's surprise package Nzoia Sugar lead the way with 31 points, despite playing two more games than Gor. But McKinstry believes it will be difficult to let the title slip through their fingers once they have knocked the millers off the apex of the log. Last time out, Gor beat reigning champions Tusker 2-1 at Moi Stadium, Kasarani, confirming their intentions. "We'll give it our all on Tuesday and leave nothing to chance when we play Wazito at Kasarani," McKinstry said. The Scottish tactician, who has already proven his worth in the dugout since joining the record champions late last year, has warned his charges not to rest on their laurels after their incredible run. "It's possible that our string of victories will get to our heads and jeopardize our streak. To improve our chances this season, we must focus on each match and try to get the most points from each one." After being out in the cold for two seasons, K'Ogalo are eager to add a 20th piece of top-tier silverware to their cabinet. "We can't wait to claim our 20th championship. We have a strong team that can get things done." McKinstry has urged their devoted fans not to give up their support, pointing out that their continued presence in stadiums during games has been critical to their success thus far. "We need them to keep coming to our games. They have a way of pushing us to achieve our goals because they always expect positive results. This season, we are not going to let them down." Gor Mahia captain Philemon Otieno reiterated his team's desire to win the championship, echoing McKinistry's sentiments. "We haven't given our fans a reason to rejoice in a long time. We've been through a lot in the last two seasons, primarily as a result of financial constraints," Otieno stated. "Given that we've already secured a sponsor, I don't see anything else stopping us from winning the league this season." Otieno praised his teammates for their incredible spirit in games, which has resulted in nine wins and three draws from 13 league games. "The morale in the camp is incredible, and it is critical that we maintain that spirit in all of our remaining fixtures as competition heats up," Otieno said. 