Kiambu leaders are pushing for the expansion of bursary fund coverage to accommodate junior secondary school learners. They are calling for the amendment of the National Government constituency development fund (NG-CDF) and county bursary Acts. On Tuesday, Kiambu Senator Karungo wa Thangwa Kiambu county said in recent years, Kenya has made significant progress in the education sector. “Junior secondary marks a new milestone in the nation's quest to provide quality education to its citizens and bridge the gap between primary and secondary education,” Thangwa said. Thangwa said that the cost of education remains a significant challenge for many families, especially those from economically disadvantaged backgrounds. “This is where bursary programmes come in. Bursaries provide financial assistance to students in need by helping them reach their full potential,” Thangwa said. He said the NG-CDF Act only provides bursaries to students at the secondary school and college levels. “These acts do not currently cover students in junior secondary schools, so it is imperative that the NG-CDF and counties bursary Acts are amended to include these students as beneficiaries,” he said. He proposed that NG-CDF and County Bursary Act should also provide uniforms and books to such students. “This will also help to reduce the burden on families, allowing them to focus on other essential needs,” Thangwa said. "We can ensure that they receive the support they need to make a successful transition from primary to secondary education. This will help to improve their chances of success and increase the overall quality of education in Kenya." Ndeiya ward MCA Nelson Munga said that there is need for concerted efforts from all leaders to amend legislation that governs bursaries to accommodate junior secondary school learners. “It is a burden for many parents who are grappling with financial challenges. It is our prerogative as leaders to amend laws and aid the needy and have 100 per cent JSS transition,” Munga said. “Parents need close to Sh 10,000 for one child to be admitted to JSS. There is also a school feeding programme at Sh4,000 which is costly for some parents." He proposed that school uniforms should be manufactured in every constituency by TVET learners and be distributed to schools at a subsidised rate. Munga also added that a law should be put in place to compel the government to provide books to the learners rather than parents bearing the burden.