Marsabit county government on Saturday donated food to residents of Hellu- Manyatta ward in Moyale sub-county in a move to cushion them from the effects of drought experienced in the region. Marsabit Governor is responding to spiking hunger and poverty due to long dry periods in the county, where already dire conditions are becoming even worse. The relief food was distributed to the residents according to their vulnerability as part of the county government's efforts to save lives. The rain failure led to poor performance in both the livestock and crop sectors which are the main source of livelihood for the local communities. Marsabit is one of the worst affected counties by drought. It is estimated that close to 95 per cent of the population experiencing food insecurity, with 50 per cent facing emergency food insecurity levels. The first food distribution happened in November last year and families report relief and gratitude upon receiving the food rations. The food supply came as a relief to over 20,000 households across the county with each ward 1,000 households benefited. While supervising relief distribution exercise at the Chief's office in Hellu-Manyatta ward, the county executive committee member Trade, Industry and Enterprise Development Adan Hirbo Doche said Governor Mohamud's administration would continue to spearhead efforts to assist affected families in water trucking and relief food aid. He said the governor is working round the clock to avoid the deaths of any resident due to the ongoing drought. "This is the worst drought experienced in our county. We will have to pray to God to provide rain for our livestock to survive. The governor has procured 20,000 bags of rice and cooking oil which will assist residents for some days," he said He said governor Mohamud launched a second bunch of relief distribution on Tuesday to prevent the most vulnerable people from slipping into famine and added that the food assistance would be scaled up to reach a larger proportion of the population affected by climate change. "The magnitude of the current drought and its impact on the people necessitate the need to expand interventions to save lives," said Hirbo. The county executive said the number of people severely affected by food shortages was identified by village elders saying governor Mohamud has lineup various intervention measures to ensure every deserving person receives food. "The governor wants to make sure the most disadvantaged families get the support they needed," he said He said the Governor is committed to ensuring both long and short-term measures are put in place to prevent deaths as a result of starvation. He said, in its cardinal duty of ensuring citizens' safety not threatened by severe droughts. The county government has been providing water and food support to vulnerable households, describing the situation as worse where residents battling their own hunger and that of their few remaining animals. Hirbo said Governor Mohamud was touched by the current drought situation and will continue coordinating relief distribution to ensure residents who are food insecure receive relief food distributed by the county government. He told the residents that the county government was working with the National government and non-state actors to mitigate the current situation of drought. Abdi Boru, a resident of Hellu called on the National government and other humanitarian agencies to chip in to save residents from hunger. "I am very delighted I have been given 25 kgs of rice and two litres of cooking oil. I wondered what I could feed to my family, I lost all my livestock to drought and grateful that the governor supported us at this hard time and tonight we will have something to eat," he said Halima Woche, a resident of Manyatta is among thousands of families hit hard by drought. "Most people in our village are already lost their livelihoods to drought. We face hard economic challenges," she said She is thankful to Governor Mohamud for distributing relief food which gives her household a relief package that satisfied their hunger. "It was very hard to afford even half kg of rice. Governor Mohamud has met some of our pressing needs," she said 70-year-old Abdullahi Gonjobe, a resident of Hellu who looked tired said there are many days when his family goes hungry and if they were lucky, they only had one meal. He lauded the county government for the initiatives of distributing relief food to alleviate their suffering saying he also benefitted from the previous distribution and depends on food aid to survive. Community elder Abdishakur Abdi said the local community who are predominantly pastoralists lost their livestock. He appealed for more food aid in order to ensure all needy families reached out to overcome the challenge of hunger. "It has been a tough time for pastoralists and we don't know what the future holds for us. We lost all our livestock to drought and we are happy to receive a second bunch of relief food but the situation needs more intervention," said Abdishakur Residents and Elders welcomed the appointment of Adan Hirbo by the governor as his executive committee member saying the governor has indicated his readiness to work with all communities across the county. They argued that Hirbo is a professional who has displaced excellent and outstanding Performance in various institutions and organizations he has served. "Special thanks to our governor for according to Hirbo an opportunity to serve in his government in the capacity of an executive committee member." They lauded Governor Mohamud for his intervention which will see the Hellu-Manyatta road being tarmacked.