Champions Kabras face KCB in a mouth-watering Kenya Cup showdown at the Lions Den in Ruaraka. This is arguably the game of the season now that both sides remain unbeaten, separated by just a point at the top — with the bankers having the edge at 45 points. In addition, the two teams have dominated the Kenya Cup for the past eight years with Curtis Olago's charges winning the league five times and the Kakamega-based side winning twice. Pundits opine this could be the dress rehearsal for the final slated for March 11. At stake in today's encounter is a top finish in the group phase, a crucial advantage in hosting a home semifinal and even the final. The bankers have made two changes for the showdown with Elvis Olukusi replacing Martin Owilah at second row, to partner Emmanuel Silungi. Former Kenya Simbas skipper Davis Chenge slots in the backrow, replacing Felix Ojow and will form a formidable unit alongside Andrew Lamond and Peter Waitere. The backline remains unchanged and will have star scrumhalf Samuel Asati alongside Brian Wahinya at flyhalf with the experienced Darwin Mukidza at fullback. Kabras have made three changes which sees Hillary Mwanjilwa start as loosehead prop in place of Ephraim Oduor, who drops to the bench. David Bunduki starts at lock with Elphas Emong relegated to the bench as Walter Okoth starts in midfield. Fijian-born Jone Kubu slots at fullback with South African Ntabeni Dukisa starting at flyhalf. Last season, KCB edged Kabras 28-20 in the league game but Kabras had the last laugh, edging the bankers 9-6 to win the Enterprise Cup and beat Menengai Oilers 34-28 to win the league title. Kabras head coach Carlos Katywa said he is relishing the challenge of the encounter. "We have had a good week of training. It will be a tough game which will boil down to who wins the battle upfront,” said Katywa. KCB assistant coach Dennis Mwanja said his side is fired up for the encounter after last week's 62-15 demolition of Menengai Oilers. "These are the games you want to play and the boys are excited and ready for what is expected to be a good game," said Mwanja. Oilers will be seeking to solidify third place on the log when they welcome Catholic Monks in Nakuru while fourth-placed Quins host Mwamba at the RFUEA grounds. Nakuru entertain Homeboyz, Strathmore Leos take on Mean Machine while Masinde Muliro make the long trip to Kenyatta University to face Blak Blad.