African record holder and Commonwealth 100m champion Ferdinand Omanyala has vowed to bag the global title at the 2023 World Athletics Championships in Budapest later this year. The global showcase is scheduled for August 19 to 27 and the Kenyan sprint sensation believes he has the mojo to obliterate the field. Omanyala spoke a day after setting a new 60m national record while beating Olympic 100m champion Marcell Lamont Jacobs in France. It was Omanyala’s first win against the Italian. The National Police Service officer said his performance in France, where he claimed three victories and placed second in another, had sparked his desire for a world championship title. “Kenya will be the world champion in Budapest this year. I am extremely happy. I’m overjoyed about how well I did in France. It simply depicts how the season will be,” said Omanyala. “I had a target of 6.55 on my tour this year, which I achieved before signing off with 6.54 (0.02 quicker than Jacobs).” Ivory Coast’s Arthur Cisse finished third in 6.59 sec. On February 3, Omanyala finished second at the Elite Indoor Track Miramas meeting in 6.60 seconds in his tour opener. On February 8, he won the Mondeville Meeting in a then national record of 6.55 seconds. Then, on February 11, he won at Meeting de Paris in 6.56 seconds. Omanyala revealed a packed up schedule, which he says is in preparation for Budapest. “I have scheduled six Diamond League races, two World Athletics Continental Tour competitions and two Athletics Kenya track and field meetings,” Omanyala said. “I’m currently preparing for the AK meetings, set for February 24 and 25 at Nyayo Stadium and on March 10 and 11 at Ruring’u Stadium in Nyeri.” The World Athletics Continental Gold Tour in Botswana on April 29 and the ASA Grand Prix in South Africa on April 12 and 19 are also in his to-do list. Before the Kip Keino Classic in Nairobi on May 13, he will try his luck at the Doha Diamond League on May 5 before heading out for the Rabat meeting on May 28, Monaco on July 21 and Rome on June 2. On September 8, he will compete at the Brussels Diamond League with the hopes of qualifying for the Prefontaine Classic finals, scheduled for September 16–17.