Former First Lady Mama Ngina Kenyatta has dared President William Ruto and his government to move to court over allegations that her family evaded tax. In a video seen by the Star on Saturday, Mama Ngina, who was speaking at a church event in Lamu on Saturday, said it is factual that everyone is required to pay tax. But owing to the intensity of the onslaught that has been directed at the Kenyatta family, Mama Ngina challenged the state to move to court if their family has not paid tax rather than talking in the media. "Mambo ya kodi ni lazima. Mkubwa ama mdogo lazima alipe kodi kulingana na uwezo wake na mapato yake. Hiyo sio kazi ya kuzungumza kwa magazeti na kwa mikutano na kwa tv," she said. This is loosely translated to: "Paying taxes is a must regardless of your societal status, everyone has to pay tax according to their economic strength. That is not something you can discuss in the newspapers or in press conferences." She further said the government should run its affairs within the dictates of the law, adding that the law requires anyone evading tax to be taken to court. "Ukikosa kulipa kodi unapelekwa Kotini kwa sababu hiyo ndo sheria. Ukikosa Kulipa ile unatakiwa kulipa lazima mali yako itachukuliwa itauzwa. Ile line ya kufuata ushuru haijalilipwa iko (If you evade tax you are taken to court because that is the law. If you do not pay up your required tax your property is forfeited. That is the line tax evasion follows)," she said. Speaking on Monday during the National Assembly post-election seminar in Mombasa, Ruto said some people who wielded power in the past used state instruments to exempt themselves from paying taxes. He, however, did not mention any names but the signs were somewhat clear that the Kenyatta family were on the receiving end of the criticism He said going forward, he will not allow this to continue under his watch. "The good people who were used to exempting themselves from paying tax, their days are up," Ruto said. "Every citizen must pay tax. It doesn’t matter even if they sponsor demonstrations so that they don’t pay tax. I promise them they will pay tax. There is no more exemption," Ruto added even as his allies accused Kenyatta family of organising demos over the tax issue. Denying the claims, Mama Ngina said it was wrong to politicize the utterances whilst knowing they were false. "Kwa hivyo hakuna haja ya kufanya kazi ya kisiasa hivi na vile na hiyo sio kweli na watu wanajua hawasemi kweli (There is no need to politicize lies knwoing they are lies)," she said. She went on to dare the state to auction her properties in the event she is discovered to have failed to remit her tax obligation. Mama Ngina said the attacks meted out on her family are unfair and false further challenging the state to come clean on the issue instead of politicking. "Na kama ni mimi sijalipa ata kwa mwaka moja, mali yangu ichukuliwe ilipe tax kwa sababu ni lazima. Hakuna haja ya kufanya kazi ya kisiasa ya hivi na kule. Na Si kweli kwamba sijalipa tax. Na watu wanajua hawasemi ukweli ," she added Loosely translates to: "If it is me who has not paid for even a single year let my property be auctioned to pay that tax because it is a must. There is no need for politicking. It is not true that I have not paid tax and people know they are not saying the truth".