Kisumu county government has dissolved with immediate effect the East Kano Wawidhi Ward Bursary Committee. This was done by the county executive member for Education John Awiti. This is following an uproar after a girl, who sat last year's KCPE, was allegedly removed from a list of successful scholarship applicants in East Kano Wawidhi Ward in Nyando Sub-County. The girl Juma Adhiambo Jane got 393 marks in the KCPE and had her name replaced with another applicant. The CEC noted that there is no way that they will deny a child who has topped the ward scholarship because of the interest of one or two people. "This is a partial orphan, who has a mentally disturbed mother who can't do anything. We can't accept this," he said. According to the county chief of an officer of Informatiom and Public Communication John Oywa, upon the CEC getting these reports he convened an urgent meeting to resolve the matter. After extensive deliberations, Awiti who was with his Public Service and County Administration counterpart Judith Oluoch gave the directives," he said. Oywa said he dissolved the committee immediately for failure to follow bursary issuance guidelines. He said CeC also ordered that the student's name be unconditionally reinstated into the list of beneficiaries and her bursary's letter of commitment to be prepared urgently to enable her report to Bunyore Girls High School. "The CEC further directed that the Ward Administrators across the county remain non-partisan in the processing the distribution of bursaries and scholarships," The student thanked the county government for acting swiftly when an outcry was made and for returning her name to the list. "I am happy that finally, I can go to Bunyore Girls High School. I was so worried that I was not going to join the school as other people were doing so." Charles Opondo, a resident within the area congratulated the county towards the effort they made in returning the name of the girl who was struck out from the bursary list to enable her to pursue her dreams.