The University of Nairobi 'Terrorists' coach Eugene Genga tips his charges to give a good account of themselves against leaders Ulinzi Warriors in a top Kenya National Basketball League match at the Ulinzi Sports Complex, Langata. The campus lads' tactician noted that this is not the easiest of games coming up at a time when the team’s training has been hampered by exams hence they haven't played a league tie since last year. The former champions are in the pole position with 29 points from 16 matches compared to the students who are lying tenth with 18 points having played 13 matches so far. Genga said his boys are very excited ahead of the match despite the odds being against them. The soldiers squeezed a hard-fought 62-55 triumph over Strathmore University 'Blades' two weeks ago. “Currently we are in a rebuilding phase. We have introduced some new systems of offence and defence and I believe we will be able to compete in the league with a little bit of hard work,” he offered. He said going into this match, the campus lads have played some friendlies and have had a good build-up, especially during the Kenya University Sports Association (KUSA) games. Fifth-placed UoN Dynamites,  who have 24 points from 10 wins have a date with Africa Nazarene University (ANU) “Panthers” who are trailing their rivals by five points. On paper, this contest will be a close fight as the former are in no mood for any more losses. A dog fight is on the show as two last-placed teams Umoja and Zetech University Titans come head to head. 'Umo', who have won four matches are favoured to take two points as the students have only one win.  Kenyatta University teams are headed to Eldoret, where they meet home teams Eldonets and Eldonets Platinum. KU are confident after claiming 47-27 and 64-52 wins over Lakeside and Panther respectively. KU tactician Caleb Osewe said they have trained well and are ready for the Eldoret matches. “We are in buoyant moods as wins in these matches will be crucial to our position as we continue to push for a playoff spot," he said. On Sunday, ANU Panthers will return to play Storms while Blades who are third on the log with 28 points meet Umoja. Second-placed Equity Bank Dumas will hope to push their 28 points tally when they play ANU.