The government has sufficient machinery and expertise to deal with the marauding bandits in the North Rift, Rift Valley Regional Commissioner, Abdi Hassan has said. He said no group was more armed or more lethal than the government when it came to dealing with insecurity. He told the bandits to voluntarily surrender and hand over illegal firearms before the security multi-agency operation of the National Police Service and the Kenya Defense Forces dubbed Operation Maliza Uhalifu enters its second phase. Speaking during a press conference at his office in Nakuru City on Thursday, Hassan warned that the second phase would be professional, targeted, vigorous and ruthless. Hassan extended the call to surrender arms to all illegal guns of the six counties in the region affected by banditry and cattle rustling. The proliferation of illegal small arms in the North Rift is a menace because even locals who are not necessarily criminals acquire firearms for protection from cattle rustlers and bandits. “There will be no extension for the amnesty, the criminals should surrender now or face the repercussions of the full force of the law,” said the Administrator accompanied by members of the Regional Security and Intelligence Committee. He said calm had been restored in the area since Interior Cabinet Secretary, Kithure Kindiki gazetted six counties in the region as dangerous and disturbed security areas and imposed a dawn-to-dusk curfew. “There has been no major incidents safe for Wednesday when bandits attempted to attack police and KDF team in the Kainuk area of along the West Pokot-Turkana border County,” he said. Hassan said the criminals were repulsed, two of them arrested and an illegal firearm was recovered during the attempted raid. He observed that there was progress although only 22 guns had been surrendered a week after the operation began on February 15. “The 23rd firearm was the gun that was recovered from bandits who attempted to attack the security team on Wednesday. The six counties that were on February 13 gazetted as dangerous and disturbed areas are Baringo, West Pokot, Elgeyo Marakwet, Samburu, Turkana and Laikipia. They were listed after four police officers were killed and several others critically injured in two separate attacks in the region. The regional commissioner noted that emboldened bandits were operating with impunity and even dared to attack a security organ "Anyone who dares the security organs with such audacity and impunity will be met with lethal force," he said. He however assured residents that the operation would not affect the law-abiding citizens who were doing their normal business. “The government is only flashing out the bandits, anyone going about their usual work will have no cause to worry,” said Hassan. The Administrator asked residents to collaborate and support the government agencies by maintaining peace and security which would consequently allow social and economic development. “There is a serious issue of under-development in this vast region because of cattle rustling and banditry,” he added.