Socialite and businesswoman Vera Sidika says the reason she featured in The Real Housewives of Nairobi is for people to know who exactly she is. First announced in September 2022, The Real Housewives of Nairobi will follow five influential and successful women as they navigate their lavish lifestyles, relationships and careers in Nairobi, Kenya. Vera said she felt like most people think they know her and that her life is an open book. "People will get to know me in a very deep way, and understand the kind of personality and character that I have," she said. Asked if the show met her expectations of what she thought it would be, Vera said she had mixed feelings. "It’s exciting, sometimes it’s sad, sometimes it’s horror, and sometimes it’s fun. You make new friends, you fight, you make up. It’s all sorts of emotions and I think that’s the beauty of reality, that life is not perfect. "I think I’ve had a great time meeting the ladies. Some of them are my best friends; I didn’t actually think I’d make friends with some of them but we ended up clicking, and it’s been a really good journey honestly. I love it." Vera said the show will bring women who are of a certain standard together. On what her fans should expect from her in The Real Housewives of Nairobi, Vera said most expect to see so much drama. She said in the show, Vera will show the other side of her. "Fans just think, 'Oh my God, the drama is just too much'. But the funniest thing is that I’m a very sweet person, an amazing mum, a great wife, and I think that’s the side that most Kenyans don’t get to see," she said. "This is going to be a different book because what they expect wouldn’t be as much as what they’ll get to see. I’ve been misunderstood a couple of times and I think this is a very great space for people to get to know Vera and be the judge." The Real Housewives of Nairobi is produced by Eugene Mbugua’s D&R Studios (formerly Young Rich Television) and is part of The Real Housewives franchise licensed as a format by NBC Universal Formats, which is part of Universal International Studios, a division of Universal Studio Group. The reality show will premiere on Showmax on February 23, with new episodes dropping every Thursday.