Fresh from beating KCB in the Kenya Cup, holders Kabras have been drawn against Quins in the Enterprise Cup, which kicks off on March 18. Last year runners  KCB have a date with Western Bulls. Other round of 16 matches will see Strathmore Leos take on the Kenya U20s, Chipu, who are using this tournament as a build up for the Barthes U20 trophy and the World Rugby Junior Trophy. Blak Bad will take on Catholic Monks as Impala Saracens battle Mean Machine. Mwamba take on Kisumu with other round of 16 matches pitting Homeboyz against Menengai Oilers and record winners Nondescripts against South Coast Pirates. The second tier Mwamba Cup also kicks off on March 18 with both finals slated for April 15. The Enterprise Cup is the oldest and longest-running competition in Kenya rugby. First played in 1930, it is also one of the oldest competitions in Kenyan sport. The Enterprise Cup was originally an annual fifteens rugby competition played between sides from Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda. It is now a fifteens rugby knock-out competition for top Kenyan club sides. The original cup was donated by sailors from the HMS Enterprise, who had toured East Africa in 1928. The only years in which the competition has not been played is between 1940–1946 due to World War II , 1987 to pave way for the fourth All Africa Games, 2011-2012 and 2020-21 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Elsewhere, Kenya Rugby Union has officially opened the bidding process for the first tournament of the national sevens circuit slated for June 24-25. In a statement, the Union said they are looking for a host team to organise and run the event with expectations that the bidding clubs will generate revenue to assist them in the annual activities. Interested clubs must fill and read the bid document which contains Kenya Rugby' s requirements and technical description of the tournament. Proposals must be sent to the Kenya Rugby Union chief executive officer by March 1 and copies must be emailed to ceo@kru.co.ke and competitions@kru.co.ke. The circuit features six tournaments over two months.