Makadara MP George Aladwa has urged President William Ruto to stop pursuing what he termed as a vendetta against his predecessor. The Azimio-allied MP said the President must not allow his troops to openly ridicule a former Head of State while cheering on political attacks targeted at the former First Family. The MP said Ruto and his troops are attacking the ex-President to cover up for their failure to deliver on campaign promises. “As elected leaders, we strongly condemn this unwarranted attack on H.E Uhuru Kenyatta and his family from leaders of a regime that is on a downward trajectory,” the MP said in a statement on Thursday. “Outrageously, the President and his key men have claimed without an iota of evidence that President Uhuru Kenyatta is funding the ongoing Azimio public consultations. What a joke? ” The MP said the opposition leader has been running political rallies for decades even when he was opposing the retired president. “Raila Odinga and his troops have for the last 30 plus years held rallies across the country to agitate for reforms and push for policies that are pro-people,” he said. “Has UDA just woken up to realise that Baba is doing what he does best? Has Uhuru Kenyatta been funding these rallies since the 1990s? ” The MP said Uhuru remains an honourable man because he handed over power peacefully in line with the tenets of democracy and requirements of the Constitution. “If there are any issues that the current president believes his predecessor failed to address, then there are systems and institutions within the state that can address them and not mob lynching at political rallies,” he said. The lawmaker asked the President to follow the tradition set by former Presidents who have set up a precedent of respecting their predecessors. “President Moi never harassed the family of Jomo Kenyatta and similarly Kibaki kept the tradition on Moi and his family. Uhuru too did honour Kibaki and his family. Why will William Ruto want to reinvent the wheel? ” Despite alleging tax evasion on Uhuru, Aladwa said, Ruto and his allies have failed to provide any information on how much the Kenyattas really owe the taxman. “This can only lead to one conclusion; its mere noise. Unfortunately, we know the money will end up in pockets of individuals with questionable characters that dominate key appointments in his government,” he said.