The General Service Unit defeated Thika 30-26 in a tough Kenya Handball Federation league clash at Nyayo National Stadium. It was Thika who hit the game-opener before GSU roared back into contention to take a strong 15-10 difference as the two sides went for a breather. After intermission, GSU led by as much as five goals before Thika closed in 24-26 with 4 minutes to play as GSU pulled away for the win. "What we have been working out on during training has worked out for us. Also, the ground favoured us after having two sessions here at Nyayo" said captain Mark Barasa. "Our goalkeeper and the defence helped us a lot as well as how we managed the game when they threatened in the last minutes." Christopher Mayende nailed 11 goals and Eric Nyamweya shot nine goals for GSU while John Kuria shit 11 and Richard Momanyi shot six for Thika. Spartan dismissed Young City 36-28 as Brian Mwinam scored 13 goals while Robert Vuyo and Anderson Kaskeu added six each. "It's a good win for us even though it does not move us out of the last two spots, but it shows we are working hard. We will continue with the push," said Spartan coach Andrew Odongo. The losers who got off to a bright start, trailed 15-14 at the break and had Danstone Shallawe sinking seven and Saulo Mwanthi six. Buccaneers succumbed to a 37-35 loss against Desert Scorpions in a tough match. Leonard Chirchir and Wilson Gathimba shot seven goals each. The losers, who got off to a 3-0 lead and were up 20-19 at the break, had game-high 12 goals from Jecton Oyugi. In the ladies, the National Cereals and Produce Board crushed Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology 36-13 after a 14-8 halftime lead. Lena Njeri tallied nine goals and Sarah Mabonga hit eight for NCPB. Lynette Baraza and Magdalene Muni scored four each for the students. Vekma Diana scored nine goals, Meldone Akoth seven while Lilian Kyanda and Lecta Buttah tallied four each as Daystar University hammered New Hope 36-13. Rising Star whipped Nairobi City County 44-28 as Zebida Atieno nailed 10 goals while Shillah Atsachi and Gau Lumbasu hit nine each for the winners