Privatisation of state-owned firms can lead to proceeds worth Sh30 billion annually, Parliamentary Budget Office (PBO) has said. In its report, PBO further said the government could address debt vulnerabilities by doing away with loss-making state firms. The report “Fiscal Consolidation in the Midst of a Global Recession, what is the magic?” shows that statistics as of June 2022, indicated that total debt service as a percentage of revenue was estimated at 47.9 per cent. It said the figure implied that for every Sh100 collected as tax revenue, Sh47.9 is used to service debt. “This leaves only 52.1 per cent of the tax revenue to finance an ambitious government development programme in an economy experiencing a high budget deficit that requires further borrowing in a recessionary global environment,” the report added. PBO said the government needs to develop a policy for a sustainable privatisation process and addresses recurring challenges, including the repeal of the Privatisation Act 2005. “Privatisation programme is implemented along with a strategy of improving the financial status of State Owned Enterprises in order to derive long-term benefits,” PBO said. The primary function of the PBO is to provide professional services in respect of budget, finance and economic information to committees of Parliament. The report added that for long-term impact, privatisation proceeds should be earmarked to capital projects that have the potential to generate future revenues or be used to retire expensive public debt. In January, Prime Cabinet Secretary Musalia Mudavadi said the government will do away with unprofitable state corporations. He explained that the government intends to sell state-owned enterprises, which have become a burden to the taxpayer. “We have not been doing well in the restructuring of public enterprises,” he said. The Prime CS further said some state corporations may have to be shut down because they are totally reliant on government funding for their operations. “We will have to decide, which state corporations justify their existence. Hard decisions are on the way,” he said. Unprofitable state corporations pose high fiscal risks to the government, owing to their large debts and the associated repayment risks as well as unsustainable pending bills.