The World Health Organization is planning to set up an office in Garissa that will help in offering technical support to the three counties of Garissa, Wajir and Mandera on cholera. WHO country director Dr Ahmed Dialo made the revelations during his visit in Garissa to access the cholera situation following the 10 days of the cholera oral vaccine. Speaking to the press after paying a courtesy call to the county commissioner’s office, Dialo said that the strong collaboration from the county officials and the WHO team on the ground has led to positive results. Garissa has been dealing with cholera outbreaks since October last year when the first case from the Hagadera refugee camp in Fafi subcounty  was reported. So far 11 people have died with more than 2,000 cases reported, with disease spreading sporadically in all the subcounties. The WHO director who later visited the Garissa county Public Health Emergency Operation Centre to check on the patients still admitted. “WHO has been on the ground from the very first day of the  oral vaccination exercise working in collaboration with county technical officers and  all the partners on the round in ensuring that that there is a very strong response to the cholera outbreak," Dialo said. 'The strong facilitation offered by the county officials to the WHO team is  really appreciated.” WHO incident manager Dr wekesa Julius who was leading the Garissa team said that the major issues that were contributing to the spread of the highly contagious diseases was lack of water and sanitation. Dr Wekesa, who welcomed the just concluded 10-day oral cholera vaccination programme that was met with a positive response, was however quick to add that it was not a "magic bullet". “Other measures need to be taken care of like personal hygiene, clean water, proper handling of food. This are key issues,” he said. The WHO official further said that teams comprising officials from the Health ministry and the county government were on the ground to educate people through radio talk shows and baraza to ensure that they get to understand how the disease is spread, and what to do to avoid its spread. Garissa Health executive Ahmednadhir Omar, while acknowledging the support that has been offered by WHO to the county in terms of containing the spread of the disease, said that the threat still remains. Omar said that more than 930 people had been covered by the oral vaccination, which translates to 98 per cent. The Health executive further said the numbers were impressive considering the many challenges the county was facing, including insecurity in some areas and the ongoing drought. “The collaboration and commitment from both governments and other partners like WHO has really helped in managing this disease. The multi-sectoral approach is really welcome," Omar said.