Two weeks after reopening of schools countrywide Saretho Primary is yet to resume following stalemate over presence of police officers inside the compound. Parents alleged that the officers in their bid to limit movement during the night harass learners, teachers and surrounding communities. This, they said, has drastically reduced school enrolment. The Special Forces officers were hosted at the school compound three years ago following al-Shabab attack that killed four pupils of the school. They have been doing patrols in areas near the border. Their continuous presence within the school compound has now become subject of dispute pitting security officials and the community who have pledged not send their children until the officers are relocated. Speaking to the press, board of management chairperson of the school Hamdi Mahat Aden said the officers have been built a separate camp by Constituency Development Fund but have refused to relocate. He said the community is facing a tough balancing act as the presence of the officers within the town is crucial for their safety but their continuous stay within the learning institution is having a toll order for the school community. “Considering the security situation in the area very dynamic, in the event of an attack on security forces it will expose the learners to danger by either attackers or security officials,” reads a letter by BOM addressed to Dadaab subcounty director of education. The letter has been copied to office of Dadaab Member of Parliament and county director of education. The official said the officers initially stopped pupils from attending night preps as they limit movement within the school compound, but were later allowed after an outcry. Since the official opening of schools countrywide, the Star has learnt that BOM, local politicians, education officials as administrations have been engaged in talks to reopen the school but has not borne any fruits. Abakaile ward representative Hajir Dahiye, who the school falls under his jurisdiction, confirmed that talks have not yielded any fruits. He has called on the Interior ministry to order the relocation of the officers. “It’s a fact that security officers are needed for protection of people in the area, but its equally wrong for them to stay within the school compound,” the MCA said. “Despite the new camp being ready and community donating land and effort by county government and CDF putting up necessary structures and facilities, the officers are still reluctant to move. We really don’t why.” Dahiye, however, exuded confidence that a solution will be found as soon as possible, saying that continuous stay of children at home will have negative effects on their performance. Efforts to reach security officials were futile. However, officials said officers residing at the school are reluctant to relocate to the new area since it is located in an isolated place with no water. Sources also said that officers argue that they will only relocate when a store where they can keep their belongings is built for them. 