The country’s aviation sector has been ranked the best performer in East Africa for the year 2022, despite the hard experiences the sector faced, including the post-Covid effects. In a consultative meeting convened by the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority (KCAA), the regulator notes that the sector attained a milestone in their progress review for  the financial year 2021/2022. According to a mandatory International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) universal security audit, the results scored the state at 91.77 per cent, the highest ever recorded for the region. The audit was conducted in May last year and it was the third audit on the country under the Universal Security Audit Programme (USAP). In 2008, the state scored 68 per cent whilst in 2015 Kenya scored 88 per cent. This is an upward trajectory for Kenya and it included an expanded scope of the audit areas. Based on the noted achievements, the meeting brought together leaders in government and civil aviation stakeholders in a bid to steer the country’s economic growth through Aviation.​ Speaking during the meeting, Principal Secretary, Ministry of Roads and Transport​ Mohamed Dhagar, said the government has a special interest in the sector and will ensure its commitment towards the sector’s success. “The Ministry of Transport is in the process of promulgating an aviation policy that will modernise the safety and security of the aviation sector through technology. This projects some of the government's commitments to taking strides in ensuring that the sector is fully supported especially through improvement of infrastructure,” Dhagar said. He added that an additional progress would be to upgrade air navigation systems and equip the East African School of Aviation with Modern training equipment. The PS reiterated to the stakeholders to focus more on achievements in the sector as it would be essential in cementing the country as a safe, secure place to trade, invest and visit. During the meeting, it was also noted that the aviation sector recorded an economic growth of about 7.5 per cent in 2021 compared to a negative growth rate of 0.3 per cent i​n 2020. On his part while acknowledging the sector’s achievements, KCAA board chairman Joseph Nkadayo, hailed the immense contribution of the country’s aviation sector not only locally, but also globally. “There was an increase in passenger traffic growth, with a rate of 98.8 per cent in 2021/22 compared to previous year while cargo traffic gained an increase of 6.4 per cent, and aircraft movement increase of 44.4 per cent,” Nkadayo said. The director general of KCAA, Emile Nguza Arao speaking on the digitisation of the services offered by KCAA, assured the stakeholders that they intend to further the digitisation of services offered by the regulator to about 80 per cent by June 2023.