Kenya Parliamentary Journalists Association has defended itself from the allegation by MPs over media operations in Parliament In a statement on Thursday, KPJA leadership expressed their disappointment with the utterances made by several  MPs regarding poor dress code. The association said at the entrance of Parliament Buildings, all journalists pass through security guards who check their accreditation cards and dress code before being allowed to get in. “On alleged offending dress code, we wish to remind the members that security and Parliament orderlies don’t allow anyone into Parliament if deemed inappropriately dressed which goes to the extent of impeding camerapersons access since theirs is smart casual,” read the statement. On Wednesday, several MPs revived the push to kick out journalists from covering House proceedings due to some issues, including poor dress code and misreporting of the news. One MP specifically pointed a finger at young journalists with poor dress codes, calling on the House to reign in on them. “There seems to be a gap between the way Parliament conducts itself in terms of the way people dress and the big team of journalists that we have," the MP said. "Is there a way that we can have a conversation with our leadership? This is especially with the young journalists who can up their game on their appearance because it’s a big concern.” While responding to the remarks,  the association said once the journalist accesses the area, it might be hard to differentiate between a journalist and Parliament staff by just looking at the dress code. “Apart from members and journalists, Parliament has its staff, personal assistants to members and visitors. If any of them dresses inappropriately, surely, can it be concluded that outrightly that person is a journalist?” the statement reads. As a result, the KPJA reiterated that media independence should be jealously guarded by all means. Media Council of Kenya CEO David Omwoyo assured the MPs he would pass the message to media houses, saying, even the State House has a dress code.