Kisumu county government is finalising plans to set up mini fire stations within the seven subcounties. Deputy governor Mathew Owili said the construction of the fire stations will help curb fire incidents across the county. Owili said this will also help in reducing time responses so that fire emergencies across the subcounties can be swiftly handled to prevent more property and goods loss. “We are going to put up a fire brigade department that is devolved in every subcounty because when you have to wait for a fire engine from Kisumu and there is a fire in Sondu, you can’t salvage or save anything, hence we are looking at this,” he said. The deputy governor spoke in Nyakach when he visited artisans and traders in Pap Onditi, Sondu and Katito markets. The artisans and traders benefitted from over 300 iron sheets from the county government. This follows fire incidents that destroyed their places of trade and property worthy of unknown value a few weeks ago. Owili said this was to help the traders rebuild their businesses at the same time restore their income. He was accompanied by Nyakach subcounty MCAs Vincent Obuya, Tom Nyaoke, Gard Olima, and  James Omollo. Early last month, trades in Katito lost goods worth millions of shillings after fire razed down their shops Clinton Akoko who deals in spare parts for motorcycles and bicycles said he lost goods worth Sh800,000. George Mikola, who also deals in spare parts lost goods worth more than Sh200,000. Katito town traders’ chairman Joel Nyangweso said the affected traders were stranded after the fire incident. He appealed for help from the county government and other well-wishers to support them back to business. “We have 15 people who have been affected by the incident. Every trader incurred different losses. Some of the shops were looted during the rescue operations,” Nyangweso said. The fire at Katito came a day after another fire incident in Pap Onditi where traders were left counting losses after their shops were reduced to ashes. The cause of the fire was still unknown as police launched investigations. He also took the opportunity and notified residents that they are putting in place an assessment and response team alongside MCAs from Nyakach to identify and facilitate the completion of flagship projects within the subcounty.