A political showdown is looming in Parliament with President William Ruto pushing to have House rules amended to allow Cabinet Secretaries to appear in the Chamber. The President is keen to have all Cabinet given access to the August House to not only respond to members' questions but also outline the government development priority agenda. The National Assembly resumes next week Tuesday after a long recess but the opposition has objected to Ruto's proposal saying it seeks to interfere with the House's independence. Free WiFi Cabinet has approved the creation of 25,000 public WiFi hotspots across the country. Kenya Kwanza government is targeting to launch 5,000 free public Wi-Fi hotspots across the county by December 2023. This will promote a digital-driven economy. NHIF cover Doctors cast doubt on the ability of NHIF to deliver on the UHC agenda after the police withdraw from the scheme and opt for private insurance cover. UHC staff stalemate Clinical officers want the government to come clear on the absorption of UHC staff after the Ministry of Health and the council of governors issued contradictory statements. Ministry says the UHC staff will be employed on permanent and pensionable terms but COG says the employment will be on the contract. USA to lead military drills in Isiolo More than 20 countries from three continents are set to meet in Isiolo for two weeks for the East African military exercise. The Justified Accord 23 that will take place in Isiolo from February 9 to February 24 and is aimed at increasing partner readiness for peacekeeping missions, crisis response and humanitarian assistance. This is the first such exercise to take place in the country and is organized by the US Africa Command. NPS case A judge has ordered the National Police Service to pay Sh4.5 million to a former officer whom it retired at 60 years instead of 65 years as he was a person with disability. Korogocho MCA incitement The court will rule whether it will detain Korogocho MCA Absalom Odhiambo for seven days pending investigations into alleged incitement to violence remarks he made last week. DP assets case Deputy Preside Rigathi Gachagua's appeal for a refund of Sh200 million forfeited to the state is set for hearing today. The Assets and Recovery Agency has made a U-turn and supported Gachagua's application to have his forfeited cash refunded. Human reproductive technologies Myra IVF is celebrating its first anniversary and launch of fertility/human reproductive technologies (vaginal rejuvenation) that would redefine the human-fertility treatment and break new ground in Kenya and Africa. Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly, Gladys Shollei and IVF expert,  Founder and Medical Director of Myra IVF, Dr Sarita Sukhija will be key speakers.