A section of fishmongers in Migori town on Wednesday disrupted operations at county government headquarters over delays to finish a multi-million market. The traders said they received eviction order from Migori bus park where they moved since 2019 after Sh114 million Marinidi market construction started by World Ban started. “We feel discriminated because we don’t have any alternative place to do our business. Since construction started it was agreed that we could move on roadsides,” Jackline Auma, a fishmonger, said. The fishmongers said they were given two days to move from the area and no alternative sites were given. “All traders were affected and most were moved in alternative sites until the market is completed, we wont accept to have only fishmongers to be affected,” Auma said, According to the mother of three, they sought for an alternative area within the market where they could fry their fish and sell at the stage. However, she said that even after following the orders, they were issued with fresh orders that demanded them to exit the stage area. “Migori has no market as it is still under construction. Until that construction has been completed then we shall move in the market,” Julius Odero, who is also fishmonger, said. Magret Nyakodiero, another fish trader,said they had not been shown an alternative area where they could sell their fish. “What is happened to us is not fair,” Nyakodiero said. Tension has been brewing between matatu and boda boda operators at the bus park as they said the fishmongers have taken up places meant for passengers to be picked and they place them at risk. Governor Ochilo Ayacko who visited the market in September last year said that the Sh144 million market which is under World Bank funding would be complete in less than 18 months. George Olumwa,  the Migori municipality administrator in Migori county, said the eviction of the traders was necessary as they cause congestion and traffic snarl up. “We cannot stop developing our market because people are selling fish. The bus park area is segmented for people selling groceries, onions and clothes,” Olumwa said, adding that the fish traders should go at the right place Olumwa said that the fish traders were frying fish at the bus stage exit, which could cause accidents “because no one knows when petrol might spill”, even as he said they were not going to negotiate. According to the administrator, the fish market is complete.  (edited by Amol Awuor)