It's like the mythical Augean Stables, too vastly filthy and getting worse for mere mortals to cleanse. But the government has yet again declared war on those polluting the Nairobi River as well as those who have erected illegal structures along the riparian areas. Water PS Paul Rono warned that the government will soon launch a sting operation aimed at restoring the river. “We want to clean the Nairobi River as it feeds a number of rivers downstream, such as Thwake dam which is about to be completed,” Rono said. This is not the first time the clean-up of the heavily polluted river has been attempted. It has been done a number of times, with billions being utilised in vain. Years ago, the river had clean drinking water from four main rivers — Ngong, Nairobi, Mathare and Mbagathi. In fact, young boys used to fish along the river as it was sparkling clean all the way from Lavington to Dandora. It also abounded with water beetles, dragonflies and other creatures. Today, the Nairobi River — a Maasai name for cool waters — doesn't support life,  except for scum and maggots. PS Rono said illegal structures along the riparian areas must be swiftly removed by their owners. “Those who have erected structures must remove them at their cost before we come. If not, we will remove at your cost as we will not allow things to remain the way they are,” Rono warned. The PS on Tuesday afternoon launched a clean-up operation at the Michuki Memorial Park as a precursor to the 17th edition of Nile Basin Initiative Day that was held on Wednesday at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre. The theme  is 'Deepening Nile Cooperation: Sustainable Development in a Changing Climate.’ NBI executive director Sylvester Matemu and director of Transboundary Water at the ministry, Gladys Wekesa, were present at the Park. The NBI is an intergovernmental partnership of 10 Nile Basin countries, namely Burundi, DR Congo, Egypt, Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda, South Sudan, The Sudan, Tanzania and Uganda. Eritrea participates as an observer. NBI was established on February 22, 1999, to provide a forum for consultation and coordination among the Basin States for the sustainable management and development of the shared Nile Basin water and related resources for mutual benefits. During the launch of the clean-up at the memorial Park, delegates from Basin countries were shocked by the levels of pollution in what they termed the Grey River. Rono however assured them that the government was putting in place measures to reverse the trends. He said for the River to be clean, there has to be team work, resources, willingness by all, including leaders, and commitment. Rono acknowledged that some sections of the Park were conducive to a clean river, while the water flowing past was in a sorry state. Rono said there is need for team work in order for restoration efforts to succeed. The PS said students from the University of Nairobi as well as the Kenya Water Institute will help the government clean up the heavily polluted River. “We will hire youths from universities and give them internships for daily cleaning and regular monitoring of the river,” Rono said. Rono said water is crucial for development of any country and the government won’t sit back and watch as pollution levels hit crescendo. “Kenya is serious about the protection of water sources. We need to act because if we do not act, our lives will be threatened. Those polluting our environment should have no peace as they threaten human life,” he said. Rono said the government might be forced to fence some sections of the River as the government waits for the Nairobi River Commission to be in place. The move, he said, will help protect the river from solid waste. The state has already named a commission to handle the clean-up of the Nairobi River. Through a Gazette Notice dated December 2 last year, Ruto named Pamela Olet as the chairperson of the commission. Former Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu also landed a new job after being appointed by President Ruto to be a member of the entity. Waititu’s suitability for the Commission has however been challenged in court. Other members include Eva Muhia, representing riverine communities; Elizabeth Wathuti; representing civil society, Carlota Dal Lago,  representing the private sector; Elijah Biama and Duncan Ojwang, both representing the academia. Others are Mumo Musuva, a representative from Nairobi county, Grace Senewa Mesopirr, representing the Ministry of Environment and Forestry. The members shall hold office for a term of three years, renewable once based on performance. Rono said the state is also toying with the idea of providing sanitation facilities in slums for the time being as a sustainable solution is being sought. He said the clean-up of the river will be a monthly exercise. Rono said the Nairobi River is great resource not only for City’s residents but also a large population in Machakos and Kitui. The clean-up of the river comes a few years after Auditor General Nancy Gathungu raised concerns about the safety of the water that will be fed into Thwake dam. The auditor said the Sh82 billion Thwake dam may turn out to be a white elephant because of polluted, unsafe water. An environmental and social impact assessment of the project warned that the water would be hard to treat owing to the pollutants. It cites problems of residual faecal and organic matter from pit latrines, graveyards and waste-holding sites from displaced homesteads and social locations. The situation undermines the health of people and animals drinking the water. The main supply of the Thwake dam will be the Athi River whose main tributary is the Nairobi River, which is polluted with heavy metals. About two million people from lower Eastern plan to use the dam to end their water shortage. The dam, which is being constructed downstream from Thwake and Athi Rivers, covers 2,470 acres (10sqm) to create a reservoir of more than 690 million cubic metres. (Edited by V. Graham)