Jackline Wawira, 25, is one of the most notable boda boda riders in Nyeri town and its environs. She was born in 1997 and raised in Nyeri county. Wawira is the only child in her family. She attended Kigetuini Primary School before proceeding to Kigongo Secondary School. After completing secondary education, she enrolled at the National Youth Service but she quit and started working for Airtel Kenya, hawking the telco’s products. She also quit the job due to low income and opted to venture into the boda boda business. She says her decision to move into the male-dominated sector was borne out of her childhood dream of owning car one day. Wawira says she saves as much money as she can to achieve her dreams of buying a car. She says her parents are her biggest supporters and always cheer her on. “Starting a business was not easy for me and so I decided to secure a loan to buy a motorbike. I started with the motorbike because that is what I could afford at the time,” Wawira narrates. She has finished repaying the loan she took to buy the bike. The proceeds from her boda boda business not only cater to her basic needs but she is also able to chip in whenever her family needs financial assistance. She says being a woman in a male-dominated field has its fair share of challenges ranging from being frowned upon to outright sexual harassment. At times clients are reluctant to ride on her bike for fear she might not be steady enough on the road. “The challenges I encounter in my day-to-day work are many in this occupation and even become profound when you take into consideration that I am a woman working among men," she says. "At times I ferry male clients who appear to be genuine customers, but once you hit the road, they cling to you in an inappropriate manner.” She says other times she loses money after someone promises to pay fare through a mobile payment platform but ends up reversing the money. "By the time you realise you have been swindled, the client has vanished,” Wawira says. Because she works past 9pm, Wawira says she is always cautious about her pillion passengers at night and only ferries people she is either knows or women who are rarely a threat. She hopes to open another business some day and hire riders who will manage her motorcycles once she saves enough from her current occupation. Wawira urges young people to do whatever work is available as long as it is legitimate as they wait for their dream jobs. “In the near future, I plan to open a bigger business due to the demanding nature of this job. I also plan to buy more motorcycles and even drive my own car. There are lots of jobs out there but I feel many of the young people are too choosy when it comes to looking for employment opportunities,” she adds. Michael Nderitu says Wawira is a dedicated and diligent rider. Due to her commitment, Nderitu rarely leaves her out whenever an opportunity which requires an extra rider arises. “Whenever there is a job opportunity out there which she cannot manage, Wawira often alerts us. I similarly contact her any time I have more than one passenger,” Nderitu says. Sarah Wanjiku, 20, is a mechanic. She works near the Nyeri town matatu terminus. When KNA met her at her garage, Wanjiku was in blue overalls, black sport shoes and a black cap. She was born in Nyeri in a family of five children. She attended Temple Road Primary School before joining Riamukurwe Secondary School where completed her studies in 2019. Wanjiku says during her childhood days she developed a liking for automotive, a passion which was to shape her career path in life. “Immediately after I completed high school in 2019, I trained as a mechanic specialising in electrical wiring. It has, however, taken me two years to gain the required skills,” she narrates. Unlike other women who are often shy to take such odd jobs due to societal prejudice, Wanjiku says she was lucky since her family has always stood by her side urging her to follow her heart. Among those who have cheered her on is her mother. “I no longer depend on my family since I started this job. I pay rent for my house and cater to my personal needs. Above all, I'm happy since most of the customers appreciate my work despite the fact that I am a woman,” Wanjiku says. She says one of the major challenges she faces is that in the process of repairing a customer’s vehicle one may damage it by mistake. “Despite being an expert in this career, we still find ourselves making mistakes. That’s why it’s critical to keep on learning and unlearning for you to keep improving.” Martin Ngari, Wanjiku’s coworker, describes her as a hardworking woman who at times works better than some of the male colleagues. Her boss Simon Ndung’u says, “She is committed to her work and has delivered good results. I never get complaints from customers and whenever I am not around, she handles everything well. Everyone can do this job irrespective of gender.” Wanjiku encourages young women to try their hands on male dominated fields.