All the Nyanza counties on Thursday concluded their Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Association (KSSSA) elections setting the stage for regional polls next week. In Kisumu, George Osura retained the secretary’s post after flooring Paul Othano. Osura had 21 votes against Othano’s nine. During the elections held at Kasagam secondary in Kisumu, the team allied to Osura swept all seats. Paul Okello won the chairman’s seat which was hotly contested. Okello had 17 votes while his opponent Lydiah Opiyo garnered 13 votes. Robert Arori was elected treasurer after getting 18 votes against Gordon Akoko’s 12. George Ombewa narrowly beat Barnabas Aduke to win the vice chairman’s post while Milkah Matiku was elected vice-secretary unopposed. In Nyamira County, Zablon Mireri of Kineni secondary was elected chairman while Hesboniah Nyauma retained the secretary’s post during elections held through consensus at Nyamira Boys High School. Tom Onsongo of Bogwendo clinched the treasurer’s post while Joyce Okwaro of Mirir Secondary was elected assistant treasurer. Paul Okello of Misambi was elected as vice chairman. During the elections conducted by the county quality assurance and standards officer Milkah Arucho, Jared Arani emerged as the new assistant secretary. The executive committee members elected are; Risper Nyang’au, Edward Abuga, Shem Mekenye, Jared Okari, and Andrew Nyamongo. In Siaya, Ngala Mbuor was elected chairman while Omondi Obiero clichéd the secretary’s post. Peter Ogutu is the treasurer. Others elected are; Patrick Mwavali (vice-chairman), and George Owira (vice-secretary) while Daniel Agai, Ojwang Odero, Beatrice Orwa and Sharlet Odhiambo were elected committee members. Raymond Omondi of Tingna secondary was elected chairman in Migori county while George Kichana retained his seat as secretary. Edna Kimkung is the new treasurer. Dan Aloka won the vice chairman’s post with Brown Wegesa bagging the vice secretary and Kenneth Manwa the vice treasurer. The committee members are Ndera Turuka, Ken Boro, Paul Assam, Rolex Owino,  and Jacob Owuonda. Chairmen, secretaries and treasurers from Kisii, Nyamira, Homa Bay, Migori, Siaya, and Kisumu counties will on Tuesday next week gather in Kisumu to elect regional officials. Otieno Oloo and Tom Odhiambo will defend the chairman’s and secretary’s posts while Tom Onsongo from Nyamira is poised to become treasurer.