Defensive blunders proved costly for Kenya Police in their 3-1 loss to Police Machine of Nigeria at the ongoing Africa Cup for Club Championships in Nairobi, coach Patrick Mugambi has said. Sunday Orinya gave the Nigerians the lead in the 10th minute as the West Africans, who have been a cut above the rest, missed many chances heading into half time. Emmanuel Sunday then grabbed a quick-fire double in the 47th and 57th minutes. Samuel Oungo converted Police’s consolation goal from the spot in the 55th minute. This was Police’s second loss on the trot after going down 5-4 to tournament favourites Sharkia of Egypt. Mugambi said lack of a clinical edge in attack was partly to blame after the former national champions failed to convert a couple of short corners. “It wasn’t the kind of results we expected. We had our chances but we couldn’t tuck them in. The spark in attack was totally missing while defensively, the team looked fragile and susceptible to quick counter attacks from our opponents,” said Mugambi. “We need to be up to speed to remain competitive. The loss is an eye opener. We are going to work on our shortcomings”. Captain Victor Wekesa echoed Mugambi’s sentiments saying: “We paid dearly for our own mistakes. Win or lose, we will fight another day. The strategy didn’t work at all. We are back to the drawing board.” Machine skipper Fowobaje Ojo said: “To God be the glory. We thank him for the victory. We came all out to win and we knew nobody was going to stop us. I think the presence of the Nigeria Hockey President Simon Nkom proved a catalyst." "We want to win the trophy for ourselves and also for Kada Stars, who failed to honour the invite. We don’t fear any opponent, not even Sharkia. We will deal with Sharkia when that time comes.” Butali warriors were awarded a walkover in the absence of Kada Stars. In the women’s category, Strathmore Scorpions lost 2-1 to Nigeria’s Delta Queens. Faith Obukowho scored in the 10th and 41st minutes rendering a 56th minute strike from Melvin Muga a mere consolation.