Detectives are back to the drawing board in the probe into the fatal shooting of a female National Hospital Insurance Fund employee on Kaunda Street, Nairobi. This is after ballistic tests on a rifle recovered from a licensed firearm holder on suspicion it was involved came out negative. The preliminary tests conducted on the rifle on Monday night suggested it was not involved in the shooting on February 13. The tests compare recovered cartridges and bullet heads with the weapon believed to have been used. “The tests so far are negative. The man is not a suspect. He was a person of interest. We will release the weapon to him,” said a senior officer who is aware of the developments. The tests were done at the Directorate of Criminal Investigations headquarters in Nairobi. The developments threw the detectives handling the case to the drawing board. They said they are optimistic to find the person who triggered the bullet that fell Mary Waithera Gathenya, 46 as she walked home after a day’s work. Police say they believe the killer bullet was a stray one probably accidentally discharged from a rifle. Some people told police on the particular day, they heard a gunshot from a street behind Kaunda Street. “We suspect someone was clearing his gun and it discharged accidentally leading to the fatal shooting. She was not a target and it could have hit anyone at that point at that time,” said another officer who asked not to be named. The licensed firearm holder was Monday arrested over the fatal shooting after he was traced to his home in Kenol, Murang’a where he had been for lunch. He denied shooting the killer bullet that hit Gathenya on February 13 as she walked home. He told police he was in the CBD on that day and was carrying his rifle in his car but he never fired. Police suspect the person who fired, discharged the gun by mistake and the killer bullet came down hitting Gathenya in the left collar borne before stopping in the lungs. The man was disarmed of his rifle and the weapon was handed over to the ballistic experts for analysis, which came out negative. Other police sources said the man has a female friend at Jubilee Insurance Building which is opposite the site where Gathenya was killed, which drew police suspicion on him. Police are now still trying to place him at the scene of the crime as part of the probe even though the preliminaries have so far exonerated him. Initially, police and pedestrians had thought Gathenya, 46 collapsed and died out of natural causes but an autopsy done on the body realized a bullet lodged in her lungs. The bullet had been fired from an elevated angle and went into the body through the collar borne before stopping in the lungs. Blood was oozing from his mouth after she collapsed seeking help.She told those close to her something had hit her. The body was moved from Nairobi Hospital to Kenyatta University mortuary where the post-mortem was conducted by a group of pathologists who declared the case of death as shooting. Nairobi Regional Police Commander Adamson Bungei said the bullet head was handed to ballistic experts for analysis. “We suspect it was a bullet that discharged and came back hitting her,” he said. Bungie said they are following crucial leads into the incident and urged for patience. Detectives have visited the scene where Gathenya died and inspected buildings around it for evidence more than four times but they are yet to get a spent cartridge. They also took away CCTV footage from the buildings for analysis. Witnesses and police said Gathenya started to complain of chest pain as she walked downtown on February 13 at about 5 pm. She then collapsed and lost her breath. Her colleagues who were with her called an ambulance which arrived minutes later but the responders declared her dead at the scene. She had walked from her place of work in Upper Hill and was headed home when the incident happened. Other witnesses said they had heard a gun fire at that time but police said there were blood stains at the scene. The incident sparked speculation it could be an assassin’s work. But police say it is far fetched and not true.