The  Vihiga Queens’ head coach Boniface Nyamunyamu is blaming their latest dip in form and performance on injuries. Nyamunyamu said at least five players are down with injuries including goalkeeper Dianah Tembesi, defender Ruth Kasoa, Felistus Kagahi, Pouline Achieng and captain Mercyine Wayodi among others. He said Tembesi is out for two weeks while Kasoa will take six weeks on the sidelines. “We are currently witnessing critical injuries in the team thus the reason why we are suffering at the moment. I am worried if my squad will make it against Wadadia FC next,” Nyamu Nyamu said. Vihiga queens face off with Wadadia this weekend at Mumias Complex. Wadadia are currently seventh on the table after winning against Nakuru City Queens. “I have got some players who also have minor injuries but they are playing. I will not reveal their names because our opponents can capitalise on the situation,” Nyamunyamu said. The tactician reaction comes after the management was accused of selling players without replacing them. The club has lost key players like Topister Situma,  Jentrix Shikangwa, Enez Mango,  Winfreder Seda and Lilian Awour among others. Vihiga Queens are still on top of the Kenya women’s Premier League with 16 points despite losing two consecutive matches in the league. Gaspo, Thika and Bunyore Starlets are in positions two, three and four in that order with 15 points each and separated by goal difference. Bunyore Starlets were handed free points after Kayole Starlets failed to show up for a match at Mumboha grounds on Sunday and remain fourth. Kayole are last on WPL with negative nine points after missing three matches—a move that has triggered their relegation. The Cecafa and WPL champions lost to Thika Queens 4-1 and lost 3-2 to  Ulinzi Starlets at Mumias Complex Stadium. Elsewhere, Trans Nzoia Falcon FC head coach Justin Okiring has dismissed claims on social media that the team has been evicted from their camp. “Our players are very much in camp and raring to go,” Okiring said. Trans Nzoia have picked four points in the last two matches, beating Kayole Starlets 4-0 and drawing against Zetech Sparks FC. “Our players are very much in camp and raring to go,” Okiring said.