AFC Leopards head coach Patrick Aussems, has vowed to annihilate Vihiga Bullets in Wednesday’s Kenyan Premier League match at Nyayo Stadium. Leopards, fresh from a hard-fought Mashemeji derby barren draw with arch-rivals Gor Mahia, will be looking to get the most out of their cash-strapped opponents. The Belgian gaffer has urged his charges to assert themselves in the crucial tie to boost their status in the cutthroat top flight competition. The 13-time Kenyan champions, who have been inconsistent this season, are currently in mid-table with 18 points after 11 games. The encounter is one of three rescheduled KPL matches. “I’m not dismissing Vihiga Bullets. They are worthy opponents. However, they should brace themselves for a thorough hiding when we meet them at Nyayo Stadium on Wednesday,” Aussems said. “If we want to rekindle our title hopes, we have no choice but to secure maximum points from this match.” Aussems revealed he is also contemplating rotating his squad in future matches to protect his players from exhaustion. As Aussems sound the alarm bells, his opposite number George Owoko is having a different problem. Bullets are in dire need of financial assistance and Owoko is fearful that this might cost them dearly. “The team is in great financial problems because, as we speak, we are not even sure if we will get funding to travel to Nairobi for our match against AFC Leopards,” said Owoko. “My players have lost motivation as a result of this crisis and it is now very difficult for me to ask them to give me good performances in matches.” “I have to sweet-talk the players to attend training while assuring them that everything will be okay. We have encountered situations where only a few squad members turn up for training, which doesn’t augur well for the club’s future in the top-flight league.” In other matches, Wazito host FC Talanta at Muhoroni Stadium in Kisumu while Mathare United will take on a resurgent Police FC at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Bullets, Wazito and Mathare United missed the first few weeks of the season due to a pending court case. The trio had been relegated to the National Super League but got a reprieve after the previous season was declared null and void.