Unicef Kenya has drilled 76 boreholes it will hand over to Turkana county as part of the drought response in the region. Unicef’s Shaheen Nilofer, the country representative, said they will hand over the water boreholes to respond to water scarcity that has led to shortage for both domestic and livestock use. She spoke when she led the team to meet Turkana Deputy Governor John Erus. Nilofer said they are grateful for the cordial support her organisation is enjoying from the county government and would want to take advantage of the same. She said Unicef is supporting the county government of Turkana to prepare for and respond to the current drought. “Unicef Wash project is supporting the county government through the drilling of new 76 boreholes which are yet to be handed over to the county while rehabilitating other 82 which are non-functioning in ensuring communities have access to safe drinking and affordable water,” the country representative said. Nilofer said Unicef is working on the second phase of Korea International Cooperation Agency for more funding. She said the funding will increase the availability of groundwater for domestic use, to improve the functionality of rural water points and to improve sanitation and hygiene practices. She further said that President William Ruto is leading the drought response meeting at national level with all the partners in an effort to consider providing emergency supplies to vulnerable communities as a result of the drought. Nilofer said that the drought has impacted on children, especially those who live far away from permanent water sources, adding that the drought in general has also put children at risk of severe malnutrition. She said Unicef is considering to dispatch a school feeding programme to Early Childhood Development Education centres as a means to bring children back to school as the highest number in Turkana have dropped out. Erus appreciated Unicef's response to the current prolonged drought that has not only dried up the water sources, but also made the community more vulnerable than before. “We prioritised water as the most important consideration in our development agenda as water supply is key for urban and rural population for the domestic and agricultural demands of the people of Turkana county. And we endeavour to do exactly that,” the deputy governor said. Erus called on Unicef and other partners to consider co-funding the three dams the county government has earmarked for implementation along the shared borders to have water throughout the year.  (edited by Amol Awuor)