Taita Taveta Governor Andrew Mwadime has named four nominees for the the remaining vacant executive committee slots in his government. The nominees are Eric Kyongo (Agriculture), Panuel Mwaeke (Devolution), Martin Maseghe (Public Works) and Christine Mwakera (Trade). The nomination is in tandem with Section 45(1) of the County Government Act 2012 as read together with section 6 of the Public Appointment (County Assembly Approval) Act 2017. "I, Hon Andrew Mwadime, Governor Taita Taveta County, have today, February 16, 2023 nominated the following individuals for the positions of CEC members, CCOs and Adult Committee, to be considered for approval by the county assembly for appointments," a statement from Mwadime's office said. For the positions of the County Chief Officers, Mwadime forwarded 13 names. They are Habib Mruttu (Devolution), Harrison Mwamkonu (Special programs), Paul Sindeu (Trade), Lonyee Mwakio (Education), Rina Ndamu (Youth and Gender) and Violet Mkala (Health). Others are Reuben Kitololo (Water), Elizabeth Mbinga (Environment), Nashon Nyali (Finance), Jimmy Mtawa (Lands), Leonard Kiute (Public Works) and Mcharo Mwalugha (Agriculture). Mwadime further nominated Thomas Mwadeghu as chairperson of the County Audit committee and Anthony Mwanyuma, Diana Mwacharo and Holiness Mwawali as members. The nomination comes a day after MCAs asked him to swiftly name the nominees and appoint county chief officers. Deputy Speaker Anselim Mwadime said the delay in constituting the county's Cabinet had led to delayed service delivery. In November 2022, the MCAs approved six out of ten members nominated by the governor to the positions of CECs. The four positions remained vacant since then with some CECs being allocated to hold the docket in acting capacity. The nominees of the four position had been rejected due to lack of enough managerial skills, lack of touch with the ground and inability to manage county staff, a report by the MCAs said. The positions of the county chief officers are held by department directors in an acting capacity. This is since the former CCOs' contracts expired last month.