Wajir governor Ahmed Abdullahi has urged the national government and humanitarian partners to support his administration in assisting the  drought-stricken families in the county. Abdullahi who spoke on Monday during the launch of relief food distribution by the county government said the emergency food availed so far by the government and partners was not sufficient to mitigate the effects of drought. “This is the second food distribution exercise we are conducting since November last year to provide food for those who have been affected by drought in Wajir. The national government and some partners have also played their part but our collective efforts is still a drop in the ocean considering the increasing need among the food insecure pastoralists,” the governor said. He said the county could not provide sufficient food aid to all residents. “Drought continues to have devastating effects on our people and the situation is worsening. Families are hungry and they are at risk of starving to death. We don’t want the situation to get to that level,” he said. The vice chair of the Council of Governors said due to the severity of the situation, many families still require support. "People are suffering especially in the rural areas as they continue to lose their only source of livelihood. We call upon the national government, NGOs and other development partners to support our effort so that we can reach more people,” he said. The governor said his administration has undertaken several steps to deal with the drought emergency crisis including water tracking, massive animal vaccination as well as repairing broken boreholes. He urged the national government to enhance the school feeding programme to help retain children in schools. Wajir and the neighbouring counties in Northeastern did not receive adequate rainfall during the October–November short rains season. The deteriorating drought situation has continued to severely impact the livelihoods of vulnerable households who are now food insecure. The National Disaster Management Authority in its January 2023 bulletin paints a worrying picture in 23 counties that have been classified as either in the alarm or alert phase of the drought. The report further states that all surface water sources have dried up, increasing pressure on the permanent sources such as boreholes. The overall food security situation in the county remains critical. More than 400,000 people in the county are facing acute food shortage with the number projected to rise to above 420,000 by march. Counties on the alarm phase include Kilifi, Mandera, Marsabit Samburu, Turkana, Wajir, Isiolo, Kitui and Kajiado. Thirteen other counites of Garissa, Lamu, Narok, Tana River, Makueni, Tharaka Nithi, Baringo, Laikipia, Meru, Taita Taveta, West Pokot, Nyeri and Kwale are in the alert drought phase.