The education review taskforce has called for crisis talks on Tuesday amid simmering cracks over radical proposals that President William Ruto has reportedly rejected. Ruto last week received an interim report from the Presidential Working Party on Education Reforms (PWPER) but sent the team back to the drawing board after he disagreed with its recommendations. The PWPER will therefore hold a crucial meeting on Tuesday to look into ways of accommodating President Ruto's proposals in the final report expected by March. The meeting comes amid reports that the president was not impressed by the committee's proposals on key thematic areas after the committee made 'ordinary recommendations'. Neither the Ministry of Education nor the State House released details on the committee's recommendations after the President told the team to fine-tune it with 'practical' proposals. “The task force will hold a meeting on Tuesday on the way forward,” a member of the team told the Star in confidence. In the recommendations, yet to be made public, the committee has recommended that fees paid by students in public universities be increased from the current Sh16, 000 to Sh52, 000 per semester. The task force has also recommended that the government bails out the cash-strapped public universities, which have an accumulated debt of more than Sh56 billion. The huge debts are owed by universities to statutory bodies including deductions for PAYE, pension, NHIF and NSSF amongst others. On the recruitment of vice-chancellors of public universities, the panel has proposed that the president should still be the appointing authority. However, the panel recommends, the input of the Cabinet Secretary for Education and the university’s Senate should matter. It also wants the government to aim at increasing the enrolment of students in teachers' training colleges. The number currently stands at 14.7 per cent, or 3,922 students in 34 institutions, which have a capacity of 26,650 students. The team also recommends that the government expands the space for Technical and Vocational Training by establishing such institutes across the country. The report shows that there should be a National Polytechnic in every county, Technical Vocational College in every constituency and a Vocational Training Centre in each ward.  (Edited by Tabnacha O)