A Nairobi court has been told that the eight masterminds of the alleged theft of the Sh449 million Fuliza Loan fraud scheme are students from Egerton and Laikipia Universities. The disclosure emerged before Milimani Senior Principal Robison Ondieki when the eight Cybercrime suspects sought to have their Sh1 million cash bail granted by the court last week reviewed downwards. While seeking to be released on reasonable bail terms, the suspect through lawyer Ham Langat informed the court that they are unable to raise the Sh1 million since they are university students from the two institutions with no other means of living. "You honour the suspects who are before you are unable to raise the cash bail imposed by the court last week since they are university students from Laikipia and Egerton who come from a humble background. I urge the court to consider their current status. Their Families are in shock and cannot raise the amount each was granted to be able to continue with their studies," lawyer Langat stated. The suspects are  Peter Githinji Wambui, Isaac Kipkemboi, Moses Rono, Collins Kipyegon, Maxwell Njamba Ributhu, Edwin Kipkorir Cheruiyot, Gedion Kipkirui Rono and Gedion Kipkoech Kirui. The lawyer informed the court the suspects are willing to abide by all conditions the court will impose and will attend court as and when required. Magistrate Ondieki however considered the request to review the bail terms downwards and ordered each of the suspects to release on Sh400,000 each. The suspects were also ordered to avail a contact person and warned from interfering with prosecution witnesses and tampering with the bank ICT systems. Investigations into the matter revealed that the students hatched a meticulous plan of acquiring several sim cards, and opening many bank accounts using collected personal details data of people from receptions at various government institutions and private entities. “This is a clear case of fraud wherein the respondents hatched a meticulous plan of acquiring several sim cards, opening many bank accounts and applying for Fuliza loans with intentions of not paying back,” corporal Knocker Nyasinga, who is attached to the Banking Fraud Unit revealed to the court. The officer further revealed that over 123,000 mobile phone subscribers joined Fuliza and borrowed loans between January and July 2022 and thereafter switched off their SIM cards, making it difficult to reach them. He told the court that the suspects were using fraudulently generated identity card numbers to register the SIM cards before proceeding to borrow money through the mobile platform. Nyasinga said a complaint was made by NCBA bank head of security Noah Cheptumo on fraudulent transactions made through Fuliza. The eight were indicted that on diverse dates between January 1 and July 4, 2022, jointly with others not before the court stole Sh449,647,200 the property of NCBA Bank. All the accused persons faced a common charge of conspiracy to defraud and engaging in organized criminal activities where serious offences were committed. The fourth charge was against Peter Gitahi Wambui, it stated that on February 8, 2023 at Hilltop Estate in Kitale Uasin Gishu County, he was found with 14 devices for registering sim cards namely-MobiGo- bearing International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI) and Safaricom Kenya PLC Subscriber Identity (SIM) Card Integrated Circuit Card Identity (ICCID). The magistrate heard the 14 devices found with Peter Gitahi Wambui were suspected to have been stolen. Peter was also found with 10 national identity cards belonging to different persons. Isaac Kipkemoi who was arrested on February 8, 2023, at Kiamunyi Nakuru City had in his possession a total of 1,023 module (sim) cards with 760 for Airtel and 263 for Safaricom Kenya PLC Sim cards. The case will be mentioned on February 27 for pretrial directions.