Daystar University posted their first Kenya Handball Federation (KHF) league victory when they pipped Rising Star 29-26 in a close match at Nyayo National Stadium. The students, who had previously failed to make any inroads against their opponents, battled hard from behind as they trailed 15-11 at halftime. The two teams, however, are still marooned at the base of the 12-team table with two points. “We played as one unit. We defended together and attacked together and this was the key to the win. With this result, I am sure the girls are highly motivated going forward," said an elated students' coach Martin Kamau. “We still have a lot of matches coming our way and I am sure we will get results. We will handle one game at a time.” Lilian Kyende, playing against her old team, tallied 12 goals while the ever-dangerous Meldone Akoth grabbed 10. Haffua Hassan and Shamira Yusuf all managed to score four goals apiece Boomerang defeated Young City 25-23 in another day's game that was also tightly contested. The winners led 15-14 at halftime. George Odero and Sammy Mulira bagged five goals each for the winners while Dickson Nanganya managed six and James Kariuki added three for the losers. Strathmore University made it two wins in two days with a 28-13 triumph over Technical University of Kenya (TUK) to leapfrog General Service Unit (GSU) to the fourth spot with 24 points. Eshton Situma shot six goals and Edgar Wanjala four. In their other game, Brian Murangiri last gasp shot gave Strathmore University a 23-22 victory over Kenyatta University. Samuel Mutuku shot five goals while Rashid Inguela had four. "Yes we trailed but all the guys were like, we would take this. We just play even after missing and fighting to the last minute," offered Murangiri who grabbed four goals. Boomerang broke off from a 15-15 tie at the breather and went on to dismiss Desert Scorpions 37-32. Onyango Joshua scored eight goals and George Odero seven for the winners. In the ladies, the National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB) whipped New Hope 57-7. Sarah Mabonga and Leah Njeri each posted 12 goals for the millers who moved to second place behind Water Queens. Esther Gathoni buried 16 goals as Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology beat Nairobi City County 30-20. Doreen Cherotich had the loser's five. KU slammed winless Daystar University 47-17 after leading 24-5 at halftime. Claire Wanyonyi scored 15 goals and Doris Odende 14. 