BA, 15, is among hundreds of protesters who on Monday marched to  deputy president’s office, demanding his audience over the high number of students yet to join Form 1. The protesters from the informal settlement of Mathare want Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua to tell the country what the government’s plan is on students who are yet to join Form 1 due to lack of fees and high cost of living. Their petition was received by officials in the DP's office. The march was organised as part of commemoration of the 2023 International Social Justice Day. Observers say the high number of students who have failed to join Form 1 due to lack of school fees indicates that the 100 per cent transition put in place by retired Uhuru Kenyatta-led administration is failing. BA is one of the many students from Mathare who have not joined high school due to lack of fees. “I sat my KCPE exam last year and scored 282 marks, unfortunately I'm unable to join secondary school as my parents cannot afford school fees,” BA said. “My father has to choose between feeding us and taking me to school.” The first-born in a family of four said her dream of becoming a journalist will be shattered if she misses joining Ikobero Girls High School in Vihiga. BA said she has resorted to babysitting for women in the neighbourhood. “This I do to keep my mind occupied. The money I get at the end of the week is barely enough to save for my admission,” she said. BA said she earns Sh200 weekly from babysitting, which she gives to her mother. The lobbies that organised the march, — Justice for Africa, 100 Million and Siasa Place —, said less than 1,000 learners of the 3,000 from Mathare who sat their KCPE last year have joined Form 1. Billian Music Foundation executive director Billian Ojiwa said the figures are alarming. “We call on the government to provide education for all student regardless of the performance as every child has a right to education, ” he said. Ojiwa, a former Mathare parliamentary aspirant in the 2022 polls, said ensuring children get proper education will reduce early pregnancy, crime rate as well as drugs and substance abuse. “We have decided to mark this year’s International Social Justice Day by seeking audience with Office of the Deputy President. Through this protest, we presented our petition concerning the high number of students who are out of school in informal settlements due to the high cost of living that has led to most parents unable to raise school fees,” he said. Nerima Wako, the executive director of Siasa Place, said the lobbies are pushing for the ministry to look into the issue, especially for children from underprivileged communities.