Kenya Rugby Union chairman Oduor Gangla said they will comply with a Sports Dispute Tribunal ruling which nullified last September's elections. Speaking on Wednesday, the chairman said they will also consult the ruling on the areas they fell short. “As a federation we want to to things above board and follow laid down procedures to ensure we don't get bogged down in court and legal processes going forward," added Gangla. On whether the union will conduct two elections with his term coming to an end next month, Gangla said the board will decide on the way forward. “There will be a board meeting to discuss all that and look at the entire ruling. Remember what we have from the SDT is summarised ruling and we therefore have to read it from start to finish,” added Gangla In a ruling on Tuesday, SDT indicated that the election of Joshua Aroni as treasurer, Ian Mugambi as secretary general and Oscar Mango as a director is null and void. The Tribunal has since ordered for fresh elections within 60 days, conducted by an independent panel consisting of two members, male and female, appointed by the KRU board. There should also be one representative from Kenya Cup, one representative from Championship side, one representative from women rugby and that the chief executive officer of KRU to be secretary but with no voting rights. Former KRU director Ray Olendo, through Kinoti and Kibe Company Advocates, had sought legal redress citing irregularities in the elections held on September 6, 2022 at the RFUEA ground. SDT reprimanded Sports Registrar Rose Wasike for interfering with the elections, adding that the elections fell short on the notice. “There was lack of an independent election panel, interference by the eighth Respondent (Sports Registrar) and lack of transparency,” said the ruling, adding that there was interference from observers, for instance the ninth respondent (Paula Lanco), which was unconstitutional. The federation was to go the polls next month to elect a chairman with the Gangla's tenure expiring at the end of March.