Starting school is one of the biggest steps that children get to take. It's them going into the world and parents need to know just when is the right time. But most importantly, parents must prepare their children well enough before they send them into the world. As the school calendar has reverted to what it used to be before Covid-19 struck, quite several parents will be thinking about getting their younger children to start school. So, how do you know when it's time? 1. They are three years or older. Schools usually begin to admit children for proper classes, especially Kindergarten, at the age of three or older. At that age, they can communicate properly and can do a majority of things on their own, for example, feed themselves and ask for things they need. If your child can have a conversation with grown-ups or other children, they could be ready for school. 2. They are potty-trained. Children who have no trouble 'going potty' could be considered ready for school. Some schools may help with potty training but others have actual toilets where it can be scary for young children who struggle with going to the toilet or still use potties at home. Getting your child ready for that can be a great step towards being school-ready. 3. They play well with others. Children who have great interactions with their peers and have little trouble sharing toys or playing with others can do great at school. Even children who are the only-child can be great with other kids. Kids who play well with others could also be ready to socialise with their peers at school. 4. They listen (most of the time). Schools are not exactly like homes. They require an order and a lot more discipline. If your child does not respond to instructions well or refuses to accept structure, it may be difficult for them at school. However, if you had already introduced that at home and they listen to you, they are also most likely to listen to teachers and can excel at school. 5. They want to go to school. Children are very perceptive and intuitive so if you ask them if they want to go to school, they might give you an answer. It could be yes. Maybe they've heard how great school is from their siblings or friends, or they've seen it on Television. If you have a conversation with them explaining how school is or could be, they might want to go. However, their answer could also be No, because they don't want to be in an unfamiliar place or setting. Sometimes they need to be nudged a little while other times, they need more time to get with the idea. If feel your child is ready for school. How do you prepare them for the big step? Here are some tips for having a crying-free transition into school. 1. Start talking about school early. You can start telling your child early that they will be going to school to get them excited and anticipate the day. Do they have friends who are in school or older siblings? Let the child know that they will be going to school like their big sister or their friend so they can start getting a picture of it early. 2. Get them involved in preparations. Going to buy uniforms? Take them with you. Let them be part of the process. When they see that they are getting new ‘clothes’, a cool school bag, pens, books and crayons, they will be excited for the day they get to wear them and use them in school. 3. Be patient with them. Remember, school is a whole new territory for young children, especially those who have never been to childcare institutions such as daycares and playgroups. If they cry at the school gates or come home saying they hate school and never want to go back, be patient with them because they are having a hard time adjusting. But if you keep on talking to them about the fun aspects of school such as making new friends and playing, they will start to come around. A lot of us eventually did, right? 4. Make sure your child is ready for school. Go through the list at the beginning to see if your child is ready. Remember, preschool is not where children go to be parented by teachers. They go to get an Education. As a parent, make sure you have done your job to prepare them for getting educated.