@yobramos4 Society should focus more on children whose parents are incarcerated, rather than conjugal rights of the inmates, a Principal Secretary has said. Correctional Services PS Mary Muthoni on Thursday said that intimacy for female inmates is not a priority. The welfare of their children is. “We should focus more on that child who is not a criminal and has not committed any crime. Wamama wanaeza jipanga (Women can take care of themselves),” Muthoni said. She spoke after visiting the Shimo la Tewa maximum security prison in Mombasa. Since 2014, there has been clamour by, especially by female inmates, supported by various organisations, to be allowed to enjoy their conjugal rights. Female prisoners in Kenya are calling for a change in laws that prevent them from enjoying sexual intimacy with their spouses when they visit them in jail. They claim the current laws only allow a very limited time for their visiting spouse and relatives, which prevents any form of intimacy. However, PS Muthoni said, “If anything, they are more worried about their children who are out there.” The PS has been moving around prison facilities in the country assessing them. She said the main aim is to better prepare the inmates for integration back into society when they complete their terms. She said Shimo la Tewa prison has so many inmates who have been trained in carpentry, tailoring, masonry, among other skills. “So that when they go out there they are able to reintegrate properly. We are preaching that we don’t want more people coming to prison. We want more people out there engaging in better economic activities,” Muthoni said. In correctional services, there are prisons and probation and aftercare, she said. The probation and aftercare come after the containment, when the inmates are released. Here, there is a lot of counselling before being connected with their families, and then attempts at reconciliation. “Reconciliation is part of healing. If you stole from me and I’m still bitter with you, even if you serve your term, whether it is 10, 20 or 30 years, when you come back I’ll still be bitter,”  Muthoni said. “So we want to put you on the table and ensure that you reconcile with this person. So that if you are neighbours, you can be able to live in a better life again just like you were before, hence, the role of our probation and aftercare officers in our society,” the PS said. She said, however, some cases need not go through the courts, advocating for alternative dispute resolution mechanisms. The government, through structures that go to the bottom of the pyramid including Nyumba Kumi ambassadors, chiefs and councils of elders, can assist the family fabric to stay together. “That is the encouragement we are sending out there. You don’t have to take somebody to prison because they have done something wrong to you. Probably it is a small offence that can be solved amicably by sitting down and talking it out,” Muthoni said. “If they have stolen from you and they say they can pay you back, allow them to pay you back and reconcile.” She said it is more painful when someone is contained for months or years when they can easily reconcile. (Edited by V.Graham)