Trans Nzoia Governor George Natembeya says he almost quit as the Rift Valley Regional Commissioner dur to government's inaction against the banditry menace in North Rift. In an interview with NTV on Monday night, the outspoken governor said state officers in Nairobi mandated with responding to distress calls over insecurity never used to answer his calls. "I don't know if politics was involved but by the time I was leaving I was frustrated. Even if it was not for me going into politics, I had already planned to leave," Natembeya said. The former RC said it had become the norm for him to report to the government about daily killings but there was no action being taken by the relevant authorities. "It can't be the regional commissioner's work to report daily that five people have been killed, six people have been murdered but when you call the head office, no one answers," he said. The governor was speaking from his office in Trans Nzioa via video link. His remarks came hours after the government decalred several counties in the North Rift as dangerous and disturbed and ordered residents to voluntarily surrender all illegal firearms. The counties are Baringo, declared Turkana, West Pokot, Elgeyo Marakwet, Baringo, Laikipia and Samburu. "I think I spoke to (former Interior PS Francis) Kibicho only twice for the three years. The only person who used to receive my calls was the President alone," Natembeya revealed. "These other people never bothered to come, you are just on your own. There is no fuel, police are not given allowances and they have no food," he said. While reiterating what he said during Sunday's interdenominational prayer that officers in bandit-prone regions exchange bullets for food, Natembeya said due to government's don't care attitude, bandits became so daring that they would walk into a GSU camp and demand to be given ammunition. "One morning, they wake up and say NPRs shoudl return their guns, and this is an area whose terrain cannot be navigated by officers trauned in Nairobi, it needs the locals," he said. "These officers have been raised in Muthaiga and you take them to go and fight with someone whose first present as a three-year-old was ammunition from his father, how will that be successful?" he posed. Natembeya said government's laxity on dealing decisively with the banditry menace created a loophole which the government is now desperately attempting to fill. He said he had vowed to end banditry in the entire North Rift region before the lapse of his tenure but the lack of support from government made him throw in the towel. "Unfortunately it got to a point where I realized there was no progress, it was merely statistics. We have something in police we call PUI...pending under investigation. People are killed and you are given a long story but nothing happens in actual sense," Natembeya said.