Journalists working in the Northeastern region have been challenged to remain proactive in countering violent extremism by highlighting such stories in the media. Speaking at a local hotel in Garissa on Tuesday, secretary general of the Northern Kenya media practitioners Yunis Dekow said the role of the media cannot be over-emphasized. He said that over the years, media has grown to be an important tool in de-radicalization and countering violent extremism. Dekow said it is for this reason that they partnered with other organizations including Horizon Analysts and Researchers Network[HARN] and womankind with the aim of building the capacity of journalists. This is by providing them with skills that he said will help in advancing Cooperation between the media and other agencies to promote transparency and accountability. He spoke when he opened a two-day workshop of journalists operating in the region on the role of media in countering violent extremism. “This significant training has come at the right time. I hope the training will make Northern Media Practitioners better informed and will help in the coverage of insurgents activities while promoting transformative engagement with partners,” he said. Siyad Jimale Amin, the Executive Director of Horizon Analysts and Researchers Network (HARN), one of the facilitators of the workshop said that the organization is partnering with the local Media and journalists in Northern  Kenya to take up the leading role in helping the government in countering the extremists and preempting the new tactics they are using to ease their recruitment. "As you all know our security forces are on high alert following recent incidents of insecurity in parts of Garissa county fueled by violent extremism,” he said. The organisation was partnering with the local media and journalists in Northern  Kenya to take up the leading role in helping the government counter the extremists. “The effect of violent extremism has paralyzed the operation of essential services like schools, health, roads and even businesses hence that is what propelled (HARN)to prioritize CVE among many other programs in a bid to bridge the disconnect between the effects of violent extremism on development projects,” he said. He added: “It is my wish that this training will be beneficial to all the attendees, and moving forward the local media/journalists will report In such a way that the actions of the militants will not be glorified as we have severally witnessed, but exposed as agents of doom and gloom.” Research carried out by HARN has now documented new techniques, patterns and changes used by the insurgent groups. In the last 6 months alone the insurgents have carried out several attacks not only in Garissa but across the region. In Garissa, Kenya's ambitious LAPSSET project has been derailed by elements of the Somali militant group al-Shabaab. The death toll Since September last year along the corridor program is at least 30, the majority of them construction workers. In the last two months alone, seven attacks targeting the project workers and property were conducted leaving half a dozen dead and destroying valuables. Attacks have increased since the beginning of the year. Despite Kenya deploying heavy security to safeguard the construction of the LAPSSET project, the insurgents have interrupted plans to connect the region, affecting planned trade and logistics adventures, as well as the expected rapid economic transformation predicted in Northern Kenya.