Zoho Corporation has unveiled the latest version of Bigin, the company’s Customer Relationship Management solution for small businesses. Bigin's latest version includes the introduction of Team Pipelines that allow customer-facing teams to manage their distinctive operations using a set of pipelines and sub-pipelines within a single Bigin account. This feature connects and streamlines various customer operations in one place, offering small businesses an easy way to manage their day-to-day processes and a single source of truth for analysing customer data. The new features compile customer operations into one place and enable tighter alignment and collaboration between individuals and teams. Zoho Kenya country head Veerakumar Natarajan said that small businesses often face challenges in choosing a solution to assist in managing their customer-facing operations. This is due to constraints related to time, cost, and software implementation. "Bigin is a solution that brings together all customer operations like sales, onboarding, delivery, training, advocacy and more into an intuitive interface that takes only 30 minutes to deploy,” Natarajan said. “By bringing together all the facets of customer operations into a single view, Bigin allows small businesses to have a more accurate understanding of the customer's journey.” Natarajan also said that these insights help businesses attract and retain customers, ultimately growing the business. “The fast-growing adoption of Bigin shows the expanding appetite of small businesses who want and need CRM technology suited to their particular needs, helping them move beyond old-school spreadsheets." Bigin has also opened its developer platform to a network of global app developers and partners who can create custom solutions for unique business needs. With various tools and components like custom fields, buttons, links, widgets, related lists, and REST APIs, developers can create new Toppings and monetise them in the Bigin Marketplace. Bigin also recently updated its apps for Apple iO16 and Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4. Since Bigin's launch in 2020, the platform has seen revenue growth of 144 per cent in 2022 in Kenya, double compared to 2021. When Bigin users outgrow the platform, Zoho alternatively offers them an easy migration to its full-fledged CRM solution. Bigin now boasts 20,000 customers and continues to help small and micro businesses manage all of their customer-facing operations within a unified platform. These product updates further support small and micro businesses by providing them with the tools and insights they need to maintain and grow meaningful and high-value relationships with customers in a challenging economic environment. Other key product updates include connected pipelines, ‘email-in’ toppings, mobile capabilities, and the Bigin developer centre. Connected pipelines automate the flow of customer data across processes aimed at improving customer experience and saving time on manual data entry. Zoho is also providing new features across all platforms including iOs, iPadOS, android, and macOS. This includes Dynamic Display which is aimed at allowing users to customize the appearance of records in their pipelines.