Set-piece remains Strathmore Scorpions’ Achilles heel, coach Meshack Senge has said in wake of their 1-1 draw with Army Ladies from Ghana in the African Club Hockey Championships. Diana Awino’s 59th minute goal for the varsity side cancelled out Charity Akoto’s sumptuous field goal in an action-packed clash at the City Park Stadium. The Ghanaians had taken the lead three minutes into the last quarter with a simple tap in the 48th minute. Senge said his charges failed to adhere to the tactical aspects of the game while a defensive mix up saw the students concede a cheap goal. “I am disappointed with the overall score because we should have managed the game better. A lapse in concentration played a major part in giving away the goal but all in all, the fighting spirit was evident as we equalised just a minute to the final whistle,” said Senge. “Tactically, we have to display our quality. Our penalty corners as well as intensity is wanting. We managed the game but we need to be confident with our execution in the final third.” Captain Jeriah Onsare who guided the students to their first league title in November last year added: “We showed character that lacked in our previous matches. We need to build on this result to end the competition on a high note.” Army coach Patrick Taylor bemoaned poor officiating for the result, terming the decision to allow Scorpions’ goal to stand ‘fraud’. “Awarding the short corner that led to the goal was fraud. I know the umpires are also learning but that is the reality we have to face.” Elsewhere, Lakers lost their first match in the competition, falling 4-1 to Ghana Revenue Authority. Eusyla Cherotich gave Lakers a sixth minute lead but GRA responded through Elizabeth Opoku, Mercy Ackon and a Vivian Narkour double. GRA coach Osei Boakye was a relieved man saying they have what it takes to win the annual competition after his charges recovered from an early setback. “We lost the first match and drew the second but to beat Lakers comfortably gives us reason for optimism. We have built momentum that we would like to maintain. We already have a strategy for all our remaining matches even as we target 10-points,” he said. His counterpart Austin Tuju termed the loss as damaging but they will take it on the chin and bounce back stronger in subsequent assignments. “The biggest lesson we learnt is not to overlook your opponents because the game is a manipulation of tactics. We will research on our next opponents. Only a win on Saturday can restore our title ambitions,” said Tuju.