Vihiga Governor Wilber Ottichilo has told off Azimio La Umoja leader Raila Odinga and accept he lost the election because he failed to post in all polling stations. As a result of that and other factors, he lost to William Ruto who is the head of state. Ottichilo said as the Azimio team, they moved to court to challenge the results but lacked credible evidence to challenge the IEBC results and forced the Supreme Court to declare Ruto as the President-Elect. “I will say the government in place is legit, and well recognised constitutionally after August 9, 2022, general elections,” Ottichilo said. Governor Ottichilo was speaking to the Star in his office on Sunday evening after jetting back from Nairobi. “The IEBC body that we are accusing of presidential malpractice is the same body that declared me governor elect so how do I start fighting it?” Ottichilo asked. The county boss said Raila Odinga lost his elections due to his own mistakes of failing to hire agents across all the polling stations. “When we went to court in 2017, the court ruled that results at the polling station were final, so Odinga failing to hire agents in all polling stations was a big mistake,” the governor said. He said Odinga was only relying on agents placed with MPs, governors and senators in his stronghold areas for results. "However areas like Rift Valley, Central, where we are not sure of Azimio candidates who could place agents, Odinga never placed his agents and that is the reason why he lost terribly in Rift Valley and Central," the governor said. SERVER OPENED FOR SCRUTINY. “When you tell people you want the server to be open for scrutiny, what do you want the IEBC to open and how sure are you of that data in that server?” he asked. Ottichilo said with agents in all polling stations, Odinga could have known the number of votes he got in the last general elections without fighting the server. The county boss said the server is not just a box in a corner to be opened, the server is set to be made by the politicians who are contesting seats. “When you have agents in all polling stations, after the returning officer in that polling station declares the results, your agents must take that data and send it to your tallying centre. Once you have that, immediately the IEBC starts declaring the results, you compare with what you have in your data centre. If they fail to tally  you raise alarm,” he said. Ottichilo’s concerns come after Odinga's lieutenants continue to fight IEBC to open servers to be scrutinised by international bodies. (Edited by V. Graham)