While negotiated democracy was widely used in the 2022 polls to foster coordination in political parties, it may not be financially viable. According to Mzalendo Trust's report on the Impact of Negotiated Democracy on Inclusive Politics in Kenya, aspirants pay the ultimate price. Mzalendo Trust said at the core of coalition negotiations and agreements is the notorious cliché, “What will we eat?” "Ideological considerations do not drive coalitions in Kenya, but office-seeking reasons are at the heart of their formation. As such, the propensity to entrench unethical and even corrupt practices to ensure the ascent to power becomes higher," they said. They said that in North-Eastern Kenya, the council of elders who are responsible for selecting individuals from the different clans to represent them in political office has come to be referred to as tenderpreneurs. This is because their demands on those seeking elective offices are high. "For example, if the council selects an individual for the deputy governor or Member of Parliament position, one has to pay the council Sh10 million," they said. In contrast, they added, those vying for the Member of the County Assembly must pay Sh3 million. "Additionally, they determine which companies will be awarded contracts after the elections," the report said. Mzalendo Trust said that this undermines the principles of democracy of holding free and fair elections through a secret ballot, erodes trust and can contribute to voter apathy. "Citizens who felt their party’s nomination process had not been legitimate were less likely to say they would vote in the general election," they said. Negotiated democracy is also, to a certain extent, based on promises of future benefits and an aspirant may be asked to cede their present aspirations for future gain. "However, there is no guarantee that these promises will materialise," the report said. "The party making these promises may not get the power they had hoped for, or because of other interests that need to be accommodated, the promises are not fulfilled." Kenya Kwanza, for example, had committed to realising the 2/3 gender principle, including 50/50 appointments to the cabinet. "However, this promise has not yet materialised," they said. Seven out of 21 Cabinet Secretaries appointed by the president are women and 10 out of 51 are principal secretaries.