Nairobi Governor Johnson Sakaja has said the security situation in the city has greatly improved over the past six months since he took office. The county boss said the number of muggings which had reached unprecedented levels in September 2022 soon after elections have reduced drastically. "I'm sure now you don't hear the kind of noise you were hearing in Nairobi county. Things have cooled down, we are restoring order. We used to have more than 200 cases reported daily, today they are less than five of muggings and that kind of robbery," Sakaja said. He was speaking on Friday during the Kenya Police Sacco Anniversary in Nairobi. President William Ruto and top security officers were in attendance at the event. Between September and October 2022, Nairobi experienced a spike in crime incidents with some ending up in fatalities. A doctor at KNH said the referral facility was at the time receiving an average of four to seven patients who had been stabbed and warned Kenyans to exercise caution when going about their business around the city. "I have helplessly watched young and old, men and women, breathe their last while trying to save them. Some are in ICU while others have survived but with lifelong injuries," Dr Lilian Munyua said. Police later released a list of crime hotspots across the city and warned residents to avoid those areas or be cautious when visiting them. They included the stretch between the Drive-In flyover and KCA University on Thika Super Highway, the KCA underpass up to Total Exit and at the Globe roundabout and Kipande Road. Other areas were ABC Place on Waiyaki Way, Kangemi, Naivas Allsops off Thika Super Highway, the CBD (particularly at Archives), River Road, Fig Tree area in Ngara and KBC offices around the University of Nairobi. Sakaja thanked Ruto for appointing an efficient police commander in the city whose collaboration with county leadership he said helped nib the runaway insecurity in the bud. "I'm very grateful and very fortunate. You gave me a very able police commander in the county, Adamson Bungei." Sakaja said he worked closely with the IG Japheth Koome and the DCI towards the restoration of sanity and tranquillity in the streets of Nairobi. He said going forward, the collaboration will rope in the county assembly towards the formation of a county policing authority as directed by President Ruto.