About 41 youth from Malindi have benefitted from scholarships offered by a university from Europe to study different online courses. The youth managed to get the scholarships from the European Business University (EBU) of Luxembourg through the help of Malindi Member of Parliament Amina Mnyazi who was given 1000 slots to share. "The European Business University of Luxembourg shall offer certificates, degrees, and postgraduate degrees. Courses targeted are in the fields of Business leadership, IT, and the English Language," she said. Beneficiaries will pay only Sh3000 commitment fee while the rest is catered for by the University. A statement from the University said that registered youth will undertake different courses in Project Management, Business Management, and Women In leadership among others. Mnyazi last week organised a prize-giving ceremony for teachers and schools that performed well in KCPE and KCSE in a bid to boost the morale of teachers and schools in Malindi constituency. She said her administration is focused on ensuring education standards are improved in Malindi to help transform the lives of the constituents. The lawmaker said she came up with the initiative because education matters are very key in her leadership agenda. She said often times, students spend more time with teachers than with their parents. “That’s why today we are saying it’s important to appreciate the efforts of our teachers for the work they are doing.” In December last year, Mnyazi announced a partnership between Malindi and the EBU that is aimed at providing free tertiary education to 1,000 youth within the constituency. The EBU has over 48 professors and has enrolled over 11,000 students globally with 55 per cent coming from Kenya alone. The University has been endorsed by the Ministry of Education Kenya and its president is Kenyan. Mnyazi urged eligible students to apply so as to gain meaningful skills that can help them get jobs in companies or become self-employed. Interested applicants can apply through connect.ebulux.lu for registration before the deadline for individual courses. "Women and people with disability are particularly encouraged to apply. Applicants should visit the office of the MP for registration before December 10," Mnyazi said. The courses available include Business Management, Financial Accounting, Business ethics, Women and Leadership, Macro Economics, Entrepreneurship and Communication, Global Economy, Project Management, and Plutus Haskell. On the English Language courses, the EBU offers Basic English A2 and intermediate English B1. MNyazi said her office is committed to and dedicated to promoting the education of  Malindi constituency for the benefit of its people.