As the five victims of the Sigalagala goldmine are laid to rest, leaders from Kakamega County have reiterated the need for a law to be formulated to protect artisanal mining and include the County government in the mining activities. The leaders spoke at Khayega grounds in Shinyalu Sub-County on Wednesday during a requiem mass for the five victims of the collapsed Sigalagala mining shafts which happened on February 9. Kakamega County Governor Fernandes Barasa directed the County Disaster Multi-sectoral team and the Artisanal Mining Committee to carry out a comprehensive audit of all the shafts within Ikolomani and Shinyalu Sub-Counties within one week. The Governor also called on all licensed miners to provide a safe environment for mining noting that the activity should not be dangerous and risky to engage in. The County boss urged Members of the National Assembly to support the Mining Act presented to the floor of the House by Ikolomani MP Benard Shinali. The Act outlines the allocation of 70, 20 and 10 per cent of proceeds from mining to the National and County Governments and the local Community respectively. "I want to urge our Members of parliament to support the mining Act to make mining a safe activity." "And in terms of royalties the County government is supposed to get 20 per cent, the national government 70 per cent and 10 per cent to go to the communities," Barasa said Deputy governor Ayub Savula said the mining Act should be reviewed so that fifty per cent of the mining activities including the proceeds remain with the County government. “I know passing a law takes time but, I want to ask our members of parliament to help us review the mining Act because we want fifty per cent of the mining Act including the proceeds to remain in the County government because it’s the County government that is closer to the people. "We even want devolution funds to come here so that we can train our people to rescue victims of such a disaster.” Asserted Savula Kakamega Woman representative Elsie Muhanda said though mining was a national government function, there was a need for a law that provides for a collaboration between the County and the national governments. "As we bid farewell to the 5 deceased souls after the goldmines collapsed leading to their untimely demise, there’s a need for partnership between the county and national government to offer a lasting solution to the Mining sector in Kakamega County." As Leaders, we will ensure that appropriate laws and measures are put in place to prevent such fatal incidences," Muhanda stated Shinyalu MP Fred Ikana said together with his Ikolomani Counterpart, they have written a bill that will soon be presented at the national assembly for debate. He said the bill will ensure that the artisanal miners’ interests are taken into consideration to protect both their lives and gold proceeds. “We have written a bill that will protect our miners who have always lost their lives in the line of their work. However, they are exploited by middlemen and brokers who buy their gold at a throwaway price and sell it abroad at the expense of the local miners." "Our young people perish in the mines because they don’t have that support, they don’t have the law or principles that ensure that they operate in a safe environment from them.” Ikana reiterated The leader expressed his sympathy to the families, relatives and friends of the departed gentlemen who passed away while on a mission to provide for their families.