In spite of competitive rivalry, Gor Mahia captain Philemon Otieno insists they do not feel under pressure to bring the title home. K’Ogalo will look to extend their lead atop the Kenyan Premier League table when they engage soldiers Ulinzi Stars at the Ulinzi Sports Complex in Nairobi on Saturday. “We know that the top four have an equal chance of finishing at the top of the table after the Round of 16 fixtures,” Otieno said in an exclusive interview. “Our strategy is to focus on one game at a time and get the most out of it. If we accomplish that, we won’t have to be concerned about our position at the end of the season.” The 19-time record champions are eager to widen the gap on their closest rivals and tournament’s dark horses, Nzoia Sugar. If the millers defeat Posta Rangers at Sudi Stadium in Bungoma, they will reclaim the lead should Gor fall to Ulinzi. Only two points separate the two teams, with Gor leading the way with 33. Tusker have a tough match at Ruaraka Complex, against a rejuvenated Mathare United, who have won back-to-back games in their last two outings after a difficult start to the season. The Ruaraka-based brewers took an early lead in the standings, but inconsistencies have seen their fortunes dwindle, leaving them sixth on the log with just 25 points from 14 games. Kenya Police coach Francis Barasa will look to take out Talanta when the two sides meet at Moi Stadium, Kasarani Annex on Saturday. The cops have been on a roll in recent games and a strong comeback from a slow start has propelled them into the top four heading into this weekend’s action. Third-placed KCB travel to Kakamega to play hosts Vihiga Bullets at Bukhungu Stadium. With 30 points already, the bankers have a good chance of overtaking Gor and Nzoia if they beat Vihiga and both Gor and Nzoia lose. On his first day in charge of Kakamega Homeboyz, newly-appointed coach Patrick Odhiambo will face an acid test against Nairobi City Stars at Bukhungu. Homeboyz are eighth on the log with 21 points. A spell of inconsistencies in their recent games cost coach John Baraza his job. Cleophas Shimanyula, the club owner, will be banking on Odhiambo to turn around the fortunes of a side that has been desperately searching for a first title. Wazito and Bandari will clash at Kisumu’s Muhoroni Stadium while a mouthwatering clash between AFC Leopards and Kariobangi Sharks at Nyayo Stadium in Nairobi highlights Sunday’s action. Ingwe are under intense pressure to perform this season and any further slip will not be tolerated by their ardent supporters, who last celebrated a top-flight title in 1998. Bidco United are high on confidence heading into their match against Sofapaka at Moi Stadium, Kasarani after thrashing Vihiga Bullets 3-0 on Wednesday. KPL Fixtures Saturday Homeboyz Vs City Stars — Bukhungu Stadium Tusker Vs Mathare United — Ruaraka Grounds Wazito Vs Bandari — Muhoroni Stadium Kenya Police Vs Talanta — Kasarani Annex Ulinzi Stars Vs Gor Mahia — Ulinzi Complex Nzoia Sugar Vs Posta Rangers — Sudi Stadium  Sunday Vihiga Bullets Vs KCB — Bukhungu Bidco Vs Sofapaka — Kasarani Annex AFC Leopards Vs Kariobangi Sharks — Nyayo Stadium