Former President Uhuru Kenyatta has in his capacity as the Facilitator of the EAC-led Nairobi peace process called for urgent humanitarian aid for internally displaced people in eastern DRC. In a statement on Thursday, Uhuru asked the local and international organisations to come to the aid of the families who are suffering following continued fighting and targeted attacks. "The Facilitator calls for special attention to be given to the children and women and the disabled who remain particularly vulnerable and whose suffering is beyond measure," a statement from Uhuru's office said. Uhuru welcomed the intervention of the EAC Regional Heads of State who held an emergency meeting in Bujumbura, Burundi and thanked them for their continued support for the DRC peace process. The former head of state welcomed the group's calls for cessation of fighting between parties in the troubled north Kivu region in adherence to the Luanda Agreement that all armed groups lay down their arms immediately. Uhuru particularly urged the M-23 to withdraw to the points agreed upon through the Luanda process. "In this regard, the Facilitator urges the countries of the East African Community Regional Force (EAC-RF) to deploy and take up their positions urgently throughout the eastern DRC, and in the case of north Kivu, for the regional force to interpose itself between the fighting forces in areas where the withdrawal of the armed groups has been effected," the statement added. Renewed fighting erupted in northern Kivu province last mid-January despite an agreement between rebel groups and the government for a ceasefire. The fighting between government troops and the M-23 has since forced many people to flee their homes. Uhuru said he will intensify efforts in organising the fourth consultative talks in Nairobi as a follow-up to the Bujumbura and Luanda peace talks, which include regional and international support. "The Nairobi IV will be complex in its execution and will require the cooperation of multiple partners and financial and logistical investment of all concerned," Uhuru's office said. It said Uhuru called on parties to focus on implementing the outcome of the Nairobi III in order to build confidence and attract commitment from the respective communities in eastern DRC to the Nairobi peace process.