Isiolo Governor Abdi Hassan Guyo has condemned the recent banditry attacks that have claimed lives in Isiolo. Speaking to the Star on Monday, Guyo bashed Isiolo residents for stealing herds of cattle from the neighbouring counties which resulted in killings over the weekend. “I am not supportive of thieves, regardless of whether you come from Isiolo or not. We cannot steal each other community’s animals. I don’t entertain thieves,” he said. The Governor’s remarks came after three people including a National Police Reservist were on Saturday killed at Mlango in Burat ward. It was suspected that bandits came from Samburu County. Authorities suspect the attackers crossed from neighbouring Samburu County and were after camels in the area. This came days after two others were killed in the Loruko area in a similar clash. The armed gang are said to have ambushed the two herders and shot them dead before turning the terror on the police reservist who tried to fight them. Following the attack, on Sunday, there were major demonstrations in Isiolo town following the attacks by bandits who stole 200 cattle. Police spokesperson Resila Onyango says police are addressing the resident's concerns. Authorities suspect the attackers crossed from neighbouring Samburu County and were after camels in the area. Police said the attackers stole the deceased’s s firearm and an unknown number of livestock from the area. This sparked tensions and fears of retaliation from the affected people. The governor further said Isiolo was facing drought and banditry challenges and that banditry should not be an issue to ignite conflict at the moment. He also asked the neighbouring communities, which stole goats from Isiolo, to return them and avoid boundaries clashes “As much as Isiolo police are following up on the issue, I also ask the S people concerned to return what they took. Some acts are outdated and should not be committed at this moment,” Guyo said. "We should respect each other's boundaries and live as a community to end these banditry attacks," he added. The county chief called on Isiolo residents to avoid involvement in crime and instead pray for the rains to end the drought. Speaking after the incident, County Commissioner Geoffrey Omoding said the motive of the dawn attack was being investigated as a manhunt for the criminals and efforts to recover the firearm continues. The attack brings to 10, the total deaths reported in the area in the last two weeks. Onding appealed to President William Ruto to extend military operations in the bandit-prone areas to Isiolo. "We have deployed officers to quell tension in the area and appeal to President William Ruto to consider extending the military operation in North Rift to troubled areas in Isiolo," he said. To address insecurity in the county, Governor Guyo announced that the county will get 350 Kenya Police Reservists to address security challenges. This was after successfully lobbying for 350 KPRs from the Interior ministry. Giving an update, Guyo said the recruitment is ongoing and will be soon finalized. He also noted that Interior CS Kithure Kindiki's plan to establish a special security unit in Yamicha and construct a police station in Malkagalla and a police post in Alango are underway. “I hope the insecurity menace will soon be behind us to allow us to refocus our energy on other important development agendas," he said. The county boss said the government had accepted his request to set up buffer zones at the borders.