President William Ruto should not take lightly the growing sound of drums by Kenyans who feel enough is not being done by the government to address their plight. Former Mukurweini MP Kabando wa Kabando has cautioned that such acts of discontentment are a recipe for trouble for the Kenya Kwanza regime and can easily topple the system. "Rising restlessness and discontent can easily fall Ruto's government," the former lawmaker said. The former assistant minister pointed out that acts of discontentment from citizens often result in anger and despair, a scenario that is a perfect recipe for a mass uprising. This, he said, Azimio leader Raila Odinga is fully aware of as he sets the stage for mass action against the government. "Fodder for the mass uprising - fuel prices, famine, fall of opposition, banditry, urban unemployment, rural despondency, threats on Rule of Law, theocracy, food prices, tribalism, school fees, corruption, joblessness. "Raila knows it, can Ruto hack it?" Kabando posed. In a statement on social media, the former MP said the prosecution of comedian Eric Omondi for leading protests over the high cost of basic commodities pointed to a government that was keen on returning the country to autocratic ways as was during the Kanu era. Omondi was on Wednesday charged alongside 17 others for taking part in an unlawful assembly on Parliament Road on Tuesday. They denied the charge and were released on Sh20,000 bond or an alternative cash bail of Sh10,000. The funny man and his co-accused were represented by lawyer Danstan Omari, who was on Tuesday summoned by the DCI over the alleged raid at former Interior CS Fred Matiang'i's home on February 8. "Charging Eric Omondi and DCI summoning lawyer Danstan Omari is President Ruto's regime's attempt at the reintroduction of Moi-like dictatorship. Unfortunately, Ruto's plan won't succeed. Kenyans are alert," Kabando said. Raila on Wednesday gave the government a 14-day ultimatum to lower the cost of basic commodities or face mass action. While speaking during the Azimio prayer rally at Jevanjee gardens, the ODM leader said it was reckless and heartless for the Kenya Kwanza regime to withdraw subsidies on food in the middle of drought and famine. "We’ve talked about the rising cost of basic commodities like unga, electricity, fuel, sugar and milk among others for far too long. We have complained about rising taxes and talked about children dropping out of school for lack of fees. "Consequently, the subsidies must be restored and the cost of basic commodities and taxes must come down in the next 14 days failure to which we shall lead the people to restore their authority and voice," Raila said. In response, Ruto said he will not be intimidated by people who are used to impunity and applying intimidation to have their way. He said everyone must obey the rule of law and the Constitution and vowed to use his position as President to ensure nobody threatens Kenyans. "Kwa hivyo hawa jamaa watulize boli. Ati wanataka kututisha na maandamo, watafanya maandano mpaka watachoka," Ruto said. (Let them come slowly. They want to threaten us with protests, they will protest and eventually get tired)