A petitioner has proposed that boreholes be drilled, equipped and solarised in all wards across the country every year except in Nairobi County and major towns. For it to be achieved, Victor Okuna has asked the National Assembly to consider amending the Water Act, 2016 to provide for a Ward-Based Water Supply System. Deputy Speaker Gladys Boss Shollei, in her communication to the House, said the petitioner is calling on the national Government to adopt innovative ways of addressing water problems. “The petitioner notes that many Kenyans do not have access to clean and safe water in adequate quantities contrary to Article 43 (d) of the Constitution,” she said. She said the petitioner alleges that the current water problem experienced in the country is occasioned by a lack of proper policies geared towards mitigating the crisis. “The petitioner claims that his proposal will create one of the avenues for mitigating the myriad challenges of climate change, create youth employment and ensure a sustainable supply of water in the rural parts of the country,” the Deputy Speaker said. The petitioner said boreholes cannot be drilled in the 85 wards in Nairobi and major towns because of water and sewerage systems. Funyula MP Ojiambo Oundo regretted that 10 years after devolution, Kenya is still a water-scarce country. “I support the petition and hope that once it is processed, we will have a basis upon which to amend the Water Act, 2016 to ensure that water is supplied to every single homestead as it was the goal of the Government at independence,” said Oundo. Mandera North MP Abdullahi Sheikh termed the petition as timely saying the country is currently faced with one of the worst droughts in years. “I appreciate the fact that the Water Act 2016 is outdated. This Petition will make sure that the Act is amended so that water issues are articulated at the ward level,” he said. Kitui South MP Racheal Nyamai called on the Public Petitions Committee to come up with a good report which will enable the House to amend the Water Act, of 2016.