Socialite Vera Sidika has advised upcoming socialites to make use of their brand before they fade away. Speaking to Word Is during the private screening of the Real Housewives of Nairobi, the mother of two said building a brand is not easy. "If you want to grow your brand, just know that it is not easy, and so when you get there, make sure you utilise that opportunity very well," she said. Vera was introduced to the world by P-Unit in their famous hit song 'You Guy'. The move also ushered in the era of curvaceous socialites in music videos. Vera described herself as the most googled celebrity in Kenya. "More than the President. They discuss me in State House," she claimed. Vera said people google everything about her. "They google Vera's boyfriend, Vera's handbags, Vera's baby, Vera's wedding, Vera's bosom, Vera twerking. I mean everything, and that is the star I am," she said. First announced in September 2022, 'The Real Housewives of Nairobi' will follow five influential and successful women as they navigate their lavish lifestyles, relationships and careers in the capital city. The reality show is premiering on Showmax tonight, with new episodes dropping every Thursday. Vera said when she was approached to be in the reality show, it did not come as a surprise since she is already a queen. "There could not have been the 'Real Housewives of Nairobi' without the queen. It was great and it is a good experience," she said. She said her husband Brown Mauzo is her biggest cheerleader. He has been very supportive about letting in cameras into their home. "Anything I would love to do or anything I get involved in, he supports me a hundred per cent." Vera revealed that they have allowed their daughter to also be on the show. "I feel like I’m very blessed that I have a very open-minded man, who understands that it’s all about growth," she said. Filming while heavily pregnant was not easy, but Vera said she was dedicated. "It makes me feel like I am a very strong woman since it is not easy to film while pregnant," she said. "I have pulled through and I am sure my baby will see this and they will be very proud of me."