Milk farmers in Isiolo are set to boost their business as Governor Abdi Hassan Guyo on Tuesday launched a milk cold storage plant and a refrigerated truck at Kulamawe. The equipment are set to help in pasteurisation of milk and other forms of milk value addition to ensure profitability and sustainability. “A day is coming when Isiolo will be packaging camel milk and selling to people and supermarkets not only within the county but even in Nairobi,” the governor said. Camel milk is in high demand all over the world, including Kenya due to medicinal values associated with it. It contains high antioxidants, which help prevent damage to your cells that can lead to serious diseases such as cancer, diabetes and heart diseases. About 6,000 to 7,000 litres of camel milk is exported  daily to Nairobi from Isiolo. Guyo said that the main challenges facing camel and cattle milk production in Isiolo included post-harvest losses due to high temperatures, limited value addition of milk and poor mode of transportation. However, with the new equipment in place, it is expected that milk production will increase. The new equipment, the governor said, includes a pasteuriser machine for processing fresh milk with solar heated water system, mobile pre-chiller machine, SS milk dumb tank and a digital platform weighing scale. Also a swinging weighing scale, aluminium milk cans, automatic cups and bottle filling machine and closed-loop water heating system. “Through the support of my administration, Feed the future USAID-Kenya Livestock Marketing System, lay volunteers international Association Climate and Development Foundation, Walqabana Camel Milk Cooperative Society will reap much benefit following installation of new technologies to enhance value addition,” Guyo said. Camel milk production and marketing in the peri-urban areas of Africa is an emerging innovation with development potential. Pastoralists are increasingly producing milk for the market, as well as for subsistence, contributing to the growth of a production sub-sector. Back in 2009, Kenya’s camel milk industry was estimated to contribute Sh16 billion to the national economy, producing about 552 million litres of milk, mostly through pastoral production. This highlights that the sub-sector has huge potential, given that it is not fully developed. Camel milk marketing remains highly informal and is characterised by main women trading raw milk between families and clans. International Institute for Environment and Development and the University of Nairobi commissioned a study that shows the economic contribution of the camel milk trade to Isiolo town in terms of employment, household income and contributions to public revenue. According to the study, camel milk trade creates a monthly gross turnover of up to Sh10.58 million. And about 94 per cent of this was due to the demand for camel milk in the Nairobi terminal market. The county chief said that close to 3,000 people depend on the camel milk trade in Isiolo. “Isiolo county produces large quantities of milk especially during the rainy seasons majority of which is sold and consumed locally for subsistence. Now with the equipment , our people are set to earn a better living and thrive the milk production market beyond our boarders,” he said.