Mavoko MP Patrick Makau has voiced his concern about his party's nationwide demonstrations saying its intentions are not clear. Makau said though he will attend the Azimio’s scheduled Friday public consultations meeting in Machakos county, it was important for the party leadership, led by Raila Odinga, to tell them why they were demonstrating. “Picketing and demonstrations is a right to all Kenyans. If you have a feeling that the government isn’t implementing development projects that you want, you have a right to either demonstrate or picket,” the MP said. The third term Wiper MP who doubles as the Parliamentary Service Commission’s commissioner spoke at his constituency in Athi River, Machakos county, on Wednesday, February 8. “For now we have been called to conduct demonstrations with the Azimio team. We are yet to be told the reason or what to expect, even intend to achieve with the demonstrations,” Makau said. The legislator, however, termed the demonstrations as untimely, saying he would rally all lower region Wiper MPs to President William Ruto to seek development projects. "On Tuesday I saw ODM leaders at State House with the President. It is time for Wiper MPs to join the bandwagon and lobby for our people from the Kenya Kwanza administration," Makau said. “But, I have said that as a leader elected by Mavoko residents, I also have freedom to discuss with the sitting president so as to get development projects to my constituents. MPs’ five year term period is short.” Makau said there was probability that if an elected leader failed to work with the government of the day, residents from the region they represent won’t get the national cake. He said it was also important to engage in dialogue on matters of national importance such economic challenges. The MP said President Ruto should have a meeting with the Azimio leaders led by Raila so as to get a way forward on the ongoing political stalemate in the country. “I support those pushing for demonstrations to make the government deliver services to Kenyans. I also want people to understand that the government also says it needs to be given time to work,” he said. “If we do the balance, we will have reasons to demonstrate and also support the government.” The vocal MP said he will join his party leader Kalonzo Musyoka in the Azimio rallies. So far, Azimio has held three public consultation meetings in Kamkunji, Jacaranda and Kibera slums, all in Nairobi City county. They are scheduled for the same in Machakos county on Friday.  (edited by Amol Awuor)