Kariobangi Sharks’ head coach William Muluya had nothing but admiration for his team after they stunned Sofapaka 2-0 at Moi Stadium, Kasarani Annex on Friday to snap a five-match losing skid. Sigmunn Maina put Sharks in the lead in the 47th minute after a brilliant one-two exchange with Tyson Otieno. It was the second goal of the season for the left-footed midfielder, who turns 18 in a month. Ibrahim Shikanda pounced on a careless clearance at the edge of the box to double the lead in the 75th minute. Muluya reckons they would have easily defeated their opponents in earlier games if their backline hadn’t consistently given out when it mattered most. “Today, we managed to score and play solid defence. Despite having numerous excellent chances to win games in the past, we ended up conceding easily after scoring,” said Muluya. “We appeared to be a little more driven than Sofapaka. We took advantage of one of the many opportunities we created in this game to score as many points as possible. “Our opponents had enough of chances to put us away in the first half but they didn’t take advantage of them.” Muluya says he will look to sign an out-and-out striker during the upcoming transfer window. The second player transfer window will formally open at midnight on February 27 and finish at 5pm on March 27. “It’s incredibly wonderful to watch people score goals from different positions because it shows that we don’t depend on just one player,” said Muluya. “But if we can locate a natural striker who finishes decisively in front of goal, we can generate a lot of goals in our games. David Ouma of Sofapaka expressed dissatisfaction over a few disputed decisions that ended up costing his side. Ouma bemoaned: “We played well, but the centre referee made some dubious decisions that gave our opponents an unfair advantage over us.” He also accused his players of being too blunt in front of goal after they squandered a number of glaring opportunities. “We must play with passion in our next games. We can’t keep losing matches since losses indicate disaster for our future in the competition,” Ouma said. Friday’s outcome leaves Sharks 11th on the log with 20 points while Sofapaka are 13th with 18.