Kenyan Premier League club Mathare United have parted ways with head coach Boniface Omondi following a disastrous start to the season. The club announced the news in a statement issued Thursday afternoon. Mathare have been on the receiving end, losing eight of the ten matches they have played this season and only managing one win. “Mathare United can confirm that Boniface Omondi has left his role as head coach on mutual consent. The decision was arrived at on Thursday following a lengthy meeting between him and the club’s hierarchy," the statement read in part. Goalkeeper coach Samuel Koko will assume first-team coaching duties at the Slum Boys as the club embarks on finding a suitable replacement. “Everyone at the club would like to thank Coach Omondi for his service during a very difficult three months. He joined us during our delayed start to the 2022/23 season and helped assemble a richly talented squad but results weren’t forthcoming hence the decision to part ways.” The club said it would provide an update on any appointment that will be made. Moments later, Omondi confirmed his departure saying he tried his best only but things didn't work according to plan. “I want to thank Mathare United FC  for giving me a chance for the last two months in the role of head coach. I tried my level best but luck wasn't on my side," Omondi said. “I want to wish the entire playing unit and technical staff good luck in the remaining matches.” Meanwhile, the matchups for the FKF Cup round of 32 action, which begins on February 11th, have been revealed following a live public draw on the FKF Cup's social media platforms. Defending champions Gor Mahia will face FKF Division One side Kibera Soccer. AFC Leopards will visit Zetech Titans of Ruiru in FKF Division 1, while Michael Olunga Football Academy will host KCB in FKF Premier League. Tusker FC will play Berlin FC from Garissa in the FKF Regional League. Kenya Police will be hosted by Scarlet FC from Jericho in Nairobi. The FKF Cup winner will represent Kenya in the CAF Confederations Cup. Round of 32 fixtures Rainbow vs Migori Youth Berlin vs Tusker MOFA vs KCB Lions vs Bidco United Karatina Homeboyz vs Sofapaka Nyota vs Darajani Gogo Scarlet vs Kenya Police Kajiado vs Ulinzi Stars Shalimar vs Kakamega Homeboyz Kibera Soccer vs Gor Mahia Marula vs Kariobangi Sharks Equity vs Mara Sugar Luanda Villa vs Murang’a Seal Zetech Titans vs AFC Leopards Administration Police vs Bandari Mwatate United vs Coastal Heroes 