Trans Nzoia Governor George Natembeya on Wednesday announced plans for the County to divorce itself from a water provider he claimed was a liability to the more than 1 million residents. The governor noted that as per the 2010 Constitution, every Kenyan has a right to access clean and affordable water. He said the time to split with Nzoia Water Service Company (NZOWASCO) had come since water and sanitation had been devolved according to the Fourth Schedule of the same 2010 Constitution. "This service  (water provision) was transferred to each County Government vide gazette notice No: 171 that each County runs, manages or operate its own water service provision. Remaining in Nzowasco, therefore, beats logic, we must go our own way," said the Governor. He said what the people of Trans Nzoia need is to manage their own water company and nothing less. Nzowasco was formed on February 4, 2004, to provide water and sewerage services within the County Governments of Bungoma and Trans Nzoia. The County boss was speaking at the Town Hall headquarters during the launch of the Rapid Result Initiative strategic plan that included the signing of performance contracts for effective service delivery to citizens. Natembeya said his Government has said he had registered a new company named Nzoia and Sewerage Company (TRANS WASCO) to ensure every resident receives clean piped water at their doorsteps. The quest for separation started way back in 2020. The Governor said the rationale behind the separation is to devolve the water service provision function to enable every citizenry to get access to clean and affordable water. Governor Natembeya further said that any water service provider must strive to protect the interests and rights of consumers through the provision of water services while ensuring that other stakeholders' interests are safeguarded. Deputy Governor Philomena Binea Kapkory said the plan for de-clustering was timely and asked for the cooperation of each resident in order to get better service delivery. "Each and every item promised by the Governor during the electioneering period is being seen. I appeal to each and every one of us to offer the governor unequivocal support in order to deliver on each and every promise made," she said. Water, environment and Sanitation County Executive Committee Member ( CECM) Patrick Gacheru said in an interview that already plans were underway for the formation of a task force comprising two members each from Bungoma, Trans Nzoia and one each from Nzowasco, Lake Victoria north water works and the water services regulatory Board ( WASREB) to chart the way for de-clustering. The task force membership which he said will soon be gazetted will start to collect its findings from the 15th of this Month to the 15th of May. This, he said was the sure road map to separation he termed inevitable. The CECM appealed to WASREB not to renew the license of Nzowasco which is set to expire on August 14, 2023. The meeting was attended by County Commissioner Mathias Rioba who led the County Security team, County Secretary Truphosa Amere, all CECM, Chief Officers, Members of the County Assembly, Clergy, Professional bodies and members of the public.