Kabras coach Carlos Katywa believes the best is yet to come from his charges after ending KCB's unbeaten run in the Kenya Cup. The Kakamega-based side stunned the bankers 29-23 in a pulsating encounter to go top of the table with one match left in the group phase. The South African tactician said there is room for improvement heading to the business end of the season. "We started the season slowly and people were asking questions about our form and structure but I told them trust the process. We came with a game plan which we executed to perfection,” added Katywa. Skipper Dan Sikuta added they cannot rest on their laurels despite the significant victory over their biggest rivals. "It's a good win in a hard-fought match. Both teams are evenly matched but the season is not yet over. We have a game against Menengai Oilers then the semifinal and hopefully final, where we are must at our peak if we are to retain the title," said Sikuta. KCB assistant coach Dennis Mwanja said they have go back to the drawing board to improve at the breakdown and setpiece after failing to combat Kabras' strength in the forwards. "We had challenges in the tackled area and our setpiece and continuity in  both attack and defence need to improve," said Mwanja. The visitors made a lighting start to the encounter with flyhalf Ntabeni Dukisa kicked over a penalty for a 3-0 lead. Fullback Jone Kubu then crashed over the line for a converted try and a 10-0lead. Dukisa added two more penalties to widen the lead at 16-0. Curtis Olago's charges regrouped and Darwin Mukidza put their first  points on the board before Samuel Asati touched down with Mukidza converting to trail 16-10 at the interval. On resumption, skipper Curtis Lilako barged over the line with Mukidza converting for a 17-16 lead in favour of the bankers . The two sides then traded penalties with the bankers leading 23-19 midway through the half. Katywa's charges finished strongly as Kubu scored his second try and Sikuta sealed the result with a try off a rolling maul. In other results Menengai Oilers thrashed Monks 55-0, Quins edged Mwamba 22-11 , Nakuru overcame Homeboyz 30-8, Blak Blad edged MMUST 15-7 and Strathmore edged Mean Machine 34-10.