Early Childhood Education teachers in Homa Bay are protesting against alleged plans by the county government to reduce their salaries as SRC recommended. The Salaries and Remuneration Commission (SRC) is said to have made a recommendation for county governments to slash salaries of the teachers. In Homa Bay, it is reported that the employer began implementing the recommendation after some teachers had their agreement terms changed from permanent and pensionable to contract basis. This means the affected teachers are likely to be left out of getting their retirement benefits. It is against this backdrop that Homa Bay pre-primary teachers are protesting. Under the umbrella of Kenya National Union of Pre-Primary Education Teachers (Kunoppet), issued notice of seven days to Governor Gladys Wanga’s administration to stop the implementation. They want the county government to suspend its decision to reduce their pay. They will down their tools and stage demos at the county government offices, they said. Some teachers have already had their pay slips for January indicating that they got less pay than usual. They said they are not happy with the move and threatened to paralyse learning in public schools next week. Speaking on Sunday during a meeting at Rodi Kopany in Homa Bay town, Kunoppet National Chairman Lawrence Otunga said the union was not consulted when the changes were being implemented. He said some of the teachers did not receive their salaries nor did their employer communicate to them what the problem was. “We have teachers with negative salaries as a result of the deduction for debts. Homa Bay public service board was ill-advised to review terms of employment for teachers,” Otunga said. Early Year Education Teachers were among the disadvantaged lot in Homa Bay until the past administration led by Cyprian Awiti reviewed their employment terms before the election. At least 1,357 teachers had been confirmed to have permanent and pensionable terms and their salaries were reviewed depending on their level of education. Kunoppet said up to three-quarters of this group have their contracts revoked and changed. This has affected the amount of money they earn every month. Previously, union representatives said, teachers in Homa Bay with university degrees were paid Sh41, 000. But it has been reduced to Sh23, 000 after the SRC recommendation. Diploma teachers got Sh33,000 but now get Sh19,000 and teachers with certificates to get less than Sh10,000 down from Sh27,000. Otunga said the reduction of teachers’ salaries is a form of punishment that the Homa Bay government has on its teachers. “The employer has refused to listen to teachers. We’re ready to take to the streets should the grievances not be addressed because we’re fighting for what is rightfully ours,” he said. Homa Bay Kunoppet chairman Michael Odera, county secretary Mike Shaya and organizing Secretary Bernard Oumo asked Senator Moses Kajwang to intervene. Odera said the disparities in their pay slip should be addressed. “Some of us applied for loans at different banks when we got permanent and pensionable employment terms. We wonder how we are going address the matter with banks after being put on a contract basis,” Atieno said. But Homa Bay education executive Martin Opere denied the claims saying no teacher has approached his office with such complaints. He said they are ready to engage the teachers and discuss their problems should there be any. Opere said his office means well to the teachers due to the integral role they play in the county. The teachers were told to avoid engaging in politics since they have reduced their salaries. “I haven’t received any notice of strike. Let teachers choose dialogue instead of issuing threats and politicking,” Opere said.