Two-time Olympic 1,500m champion Faith Kipyegon and world 10,000m silver medalist Stanley Waithaka believe a perfect outing at Saturday's Sirikwa Classic will kickstart their campaign towards the World Championships in Budapest later this year. While addressing journalists on the even of the Sirikwa Classic World Athletics Cross Country Tour at the Lobo Village, Uasin Gishu County, the two said they want to put in results right from the world go to boost their confidence. Kipyegon, who narrowly missed the 1,500m world record during the Monaco Diamond League, said she is going back to basics with an appearance in cross country, where her career sprouted at the junior level. “I’m going back to cross country. I can’t say it is a tough race as they say. I’m ready for the race though I'm not a steeplechase runner (the course has steeplechase hurdles) but I'm ready to do one,” said Kipyegon, the world 1,500 champion. “My preparations for Budapest are on and starting with the cross country season may lead to a world record. I have gone back to the drawing board to ensure that I achieve my goal. I have no pressure to run with top cross country athletes tomorrow (Saturday)." Kipyegon’s coach, Patrick Sang, said cross country helps with endurance and stamina and that's what they want to improve on. “Athletes perform well in track and field after competing in cross country. It's time for Faith to come to her reality of setting a world record after missing out in Monaco last year,” said Sang. Waithaka, who struck a silver medal at the World Championships in Eugene last year despite a fall enroute, said he fancies the Lobo course since the organisers have done away with the soggy mud patches witnessed last year. “I’m happy that there is no mud like last year. I am looking for a better performance come tomorrow. It is always to start the season with cross country,” he said. “I finished fourth last year and I learnt my lesson. Just like in Oregon, where I won silver after falling, I am determined and focused. I want to run better in my season-opener. I am here to improve my position from last year,” he said. Waithaka observed that a good start to the season will be key as he seeks to end Kenya's 10,000m dry spell in Budapest. “The title drought in 10,000m should come to an end this year. Kenyans should expect much from me this time,” said Waithaka. Meanwhile, Athletics Kenya President Jack Tuwei said Sirikwa Classic, which has seen an increased number of participants, offers a valuable opportunity for runners to get their spikes ready for a packed-up season. “Sirikwa is the beginning of a packed year and I would like athletes and coaches to work round the clock to prepare well. We need to encourage athletes and coaches to work towards meeting the qualifications in time for Budapest, considering the challenging qualifying requirements” said Tuwei. Sirikwa Classic chairman Ibrahim Hussein said: “During the 2017 World Cross Country Championships in Uganda, we had inverted steeplechase hurdles, which were a bit risky. This time we have the right steeplechase hurdles."