Record champions Gor Mahia on Saturday opened a four-point gap at the summit of the Kenyan Premier League after holding off strong challenge to beat Kenya Police 2-1 at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. A brilliant header by Elvis Rupia gave the law enforcers a deserved lead, barely 11 minutes into the proceedings. However, towering center-back Dennis Ng'ang'a pulled the record champions back into the match after leaping high to connect with John Macharia's alluring cross. A swiftly executed counterattack gave Gor a last-ditch victory, thanks to Benson Omalla who slotted his effort past Job Ochieng to secure all three points for K'Ogalo The match appeared set to end in a stalemate but a quick restart from the corner saw goalkeeper Gad Mathews find Boniface Omondi with a long ball. The quick-footed winger then dribbled and left defender David Owino trailing him helplessly, before assisting teammate Benson Omalla for his 16th goal of the year. Despite being restrained for the majority of the day, Omalla came through when it mattered most. He fumbled with his initial touch but quickly recovered to bury his attempt past Ochieng. Jonathan McKinstry, the Gor head coach, was full of praise for his charges for punching above their weight. "The three points against Police are without a doubt equivalent to any other three points, but the difference today is that the game was incredibly difficult because they are a pretty talented squad," McKinistry remarked. "They created issues for us but it is incredibly satisfying that we were able to respond and win the game," he added. As McKinistry celebrated his victory, his opposite number Francis Baraza pointed out their flaws. "Today's game was extremely excellent. We lost because of a few unimportant errors we committed,"explained Baraza. "We performed admirably and displayed maturity, but this is not the end. We'll review the match and fix our errors," he added. Saturday's outcome leaves K'Ogalo at the apex of the log with 37 points, four more than second-placed Nzoia Sugar who were held to a one-all draw by Talanta at Sudi Stadium in Bungoma. KCB, who have a date with AFC Leopards at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Sunday, have slumped down to third with the same points as the millers, but with an inferior goal difference.