Muhoroni MP Onyango Koyoo has urged communities living in the Nandi -Kisumu borders to continue living in peace. He said the elections were over and it was time for the communities to work together for socioeconomic development irrespective of their political affiliation. Koyoo pointed out that communities of Nandi and the Luo have lived in peace since time immemorial and they should continue in the spirit. “We are brothers and sisters who should purely focus on unity and growth to better our lives,” he said. The MP stated that no tangible development can be achieved in an unhealthy and violent environment. Koyoo was addressing his constituent during a bursary disbursement on Monday. He said the two communities have been doing business together and share common resources at the border. He said they have worked together with Tinderet MP Julius Melly to ensure the two communities live in peace. The MP cited sugarcane farming where they both supply Chemelil Sugar Factory and Muhoroni Factory amongst others. Koyoo called for development projects along the borders to be shared by the communities to promote peaceful co-existence. He further urged Kenyans to move on from the 2022 general elections saying that there was now a government in place. “We need to embrace the government of the day. It is the best way to build our nation and improve our livelihood,” Koyoo said. During the visit by President William Ruto, he said leaders from the Nyanza region tabled the projects they wanted the government to implement. “We had a meeting with Ruto and presented him our wish list as elected leaders from Kisumu county,” Koyoo said. The projects included Muhoroni-Chemelil- Kibos Road, the Multi-Purpose Koru-Soin Dam and state-owned sugar factories within the Nyando Sugar Belt. Koyoo said more projects will be brought to the Nyanza region. President Ruto promised the people of Muhoroni goodies during his tour of Nyanza. He singled out the Mamboleo-Miwani-Chemelil road as a case in point.