Irene Masit, the electoral commissioner who has been recommended for removal from office, risks being barred from holding public office in future. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commissioner also faces possible legal sanctions including prosecution over crimes established by the Aggrey Muchelule-chaired tribunal or those that can be instigated by authorities. The Constitution, under the leadership and integrity Chapter, provides that a public officer who has been removed from office is barred from holding any public office in future. Former governors Ferdinand Waititu(Kiambu) and Mike Sonko(Nairobi) were locked from elective positions in the last general election after their removal from office by impeachment. "A person who has been dismissed or otherwise removed from office for a contravention of the provisions specified in Clause 2 is disqualified from holding any other State office," reads Article 75(3). The tribunal for the removal of IEBC commissioners from office recommended on Monday that Masit be removed from office for gross violation of the constitution. Unless she successfully moves to the Court of Appeal to overturn the tribunal's decision, Masit stares at a permanent ban from holding any public office. The Muchelule tribunal found that Masit and her colleagues -Francis Wanderi, Justus Nyang'aya and vice chairperson Juliana Cherera-violated the constitution during the 2022 general election. "This tribunal recommends that commissioner Irene Cherop Masit be removed from office as a member of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission," the tribunal said in its report. The president is tied to act based on the tribunal's recommendations. Over and above the ban, Masit who decided to stay put and fight for her fate after her three colleagues resigned, will also lose any perks payable to a public officer who completes a statutory term or otherwise resigns midway. This include pension and other gratuity benefits that come with such a lucrative office of commissioner.