Google has introduced a new update to help search what is on your mobile screen. In the coming months, users can use Lens to “search your screen” on Android globally. With this new technology, one can search what they see in photos or videos across websites and apps they know and love. These include messaging and video apps; the user doesn’t have to leave the app or experience. Since the early days of Search, AI has helped Google with language understanding, making results more helpful. Over the years, the global tech company has deepened investment in AI making it possible to understand the information in its many forms. From language understanding to video and even the real world. Speaking during a virtual live event in Paris, Search vice president and GM Elizabeth Reid said that whatever can be seen now, can be searched. During the event, she shared new ways Google is applying its advancements in AI to make the exploration of information more natural and intuitive. “Cameras have become a powerful way to explore and understand the world around us. In fact, Google Lens is now used more than 10 billion times per month as people search what they see using their phone camera or image,” Reid said. Users can already use Lens to search from the camera or photos from the Search bar. Let’s say a friend sends you a video of them exploring Paris. If you want to learn more about the specific landmark sent, you can long-press the power or home button on your android to invoke Google Assistant and then tap on “search screen.” Google Lens will identify the place as Palais de Luxembourg, for example, and you can click to learn more. Google has also made improvements to its Multisearch feature. This feature is currently globally available on mobile, in all languages and countries where Lens is available. Google has added the ability to search locally on Multisearch. You can take a picture of any item and add the text “near me” to find businesses that sell whatever you are looking for. The feature is currently in English in the US and in a couple of months is expected to expand globally. Users will also be able to use Multisearch globally on any image seen on the search results page on mobile.