A Treasury official whose assets worth Sh83 million were last year frozen by the High Court over allegations they were proceeds of crime is now seeking an out-of-court settlement with EACC over the matter. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission took Faith Jematia Kiptis to court last year and got orders to freeze her assets that were alleged to have been acquired through involvement in the embezzlement of public funds. “An analysis of the respondent’s transactions and information received by the EACC further raises reasonable suspicion that said properties may have been acquired in the period when she is reasonably suspected to have engaged in corrupt conduct, from public funds suspected to have been corruptly acquired," the agency said in its affidavits. “It is reasonably suspected that these properties also compose proceeds of corruption from public funds corruptly acquired which are amenable to forfeiture to the State,” EACC added. Justice Esther Maina of the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes division granted the preservation orders prohibiting Jematia, her agents, servants or any other persons from transferring, disposing of, or in any other way dealing with the said properties pending the conclusion of investigations. The preservation order issued in July last year was to remain in force for six months as EACC concludes investigations. When the matter came up for mention on Thursday, Jematia told the court that she was already pursuing an out-of-court settlement with EACC and thus wanted more time for the negotiations. "We have written to EACC and we are still waiting for a response from them," Jematia's lawyer Jemima Alluda told the court. The commission also confirmed that Jematia had written to the agency seeking the out-of-court settlement. "We do confirm receiving a letter proposing an out-of-court settlement. We can give parties 60 days to pursue that," EACC lawyers said. Justice Maina granted the days sought and fixed the matter for mention on May 2. Jematia was among four Treasury officials who were under the EACC probe for embezzlement of Sh177,669,832 between 2020 and 2022. However, only Sh37 million was left in their accounts by the time the EACC got intelligence regarding the alleged theft. The others are Robert Theuri Murage, Esther Ngeru and Doris Simiyu. Their accounts were found to be holding millions of shillings that did not match their salaries.