It was glorious and warm Nairobi afternoon at Ngong Racecourse for the Fillies Guineas — Ladies Day, which saw a handsome number of spectators, fashionably decorated and groomed, in a boisterous mood come to cheer, make merry and enjoy an afternoon teeming with colourful entertainment, and punctuated by a full seven races. The main contest of the afternoon, the 1600m Fillies Guineas, was setup with flair and flamboyance by madcap aviator Mark Ross and his aerial acrobatics framed against a clear blue sky with a glowing snowy mid-afternoon moon, which left the crowd charged and ready for the racing. The race, rife with anticipation from the patrons, was a brisk and closely contested affair that became a tale of two parts which saw the rich field running closely at a lively pace for the first three quarters, hoof-to-hoof, before the favourite, Honeybell Orange — ridden by Lesley Sercombe — tore down the final straight for a comfortable win of 4½ lengths, with Daisy ridden by H Muya in second, and Twyford ridden by P Kiarie in third. Sercombe said: “I was ecstatic. The pace was fast and she (Honeybell Orange) is a bit of a stayer, but she’s come through and won because she’s a brave classy horse. It’s a privilege to ride her.” Lady Spencer, Honeybell Orange’s owner, was equally jubilant. “We couldn’t have been happier to win the Fillies Guineas. The atmosphere was incredible, the crowds were so encouraging and we can’t wait to be back for the Derby in April.” The animated crowd coloured the day with fine fashion, and were nourished and quenched with a delectable assortment of epicurean treats from the pop-up market, and danced late into the night with music from Nairobi’s finest DJ’s. Despite the warm weather which has lingered over Kenya for an extended period, the Jockey Club of Kenya (JCK) did an excellent job to ensure that the track was well irrigated and had a good cushion of grass for racing, with trainer Ollie Gray saying that the ground was firm but fine.  RACE RESULTS Duke of Manchester Cup (1200m) - Kenya Queen Pinky Mahajan Handicap (1600m) - Daytime Girl Vicky Jackman Handicap (2060m) - Empress of Fate Harrison White Handicap (1200m) - Scott Fillies Guineas (1600m) - Honeybell Orange Harry Deakin Memorial Bowl (1000m) - Jack Sparrow Frankie Icely Maiden (1000m) - The Gambler