Gospel Dj Covenant has denied social media allegations that he operates a club business in Thika and another one along the Eastern Bypass. Speaking to the Star, Dj Covenant said that being a gospel and born-again Christian, he doesn’t engage in businesses that are against his faith and beliefs. He said that the stories are aimed at tainting his reputation. “I would like to state that, I don’t operate any club business neither do I play music in clubs despite having friends and supporters in those businesses," Covenant said. He further revealed that most people associate him with club business due to frequent visits to a Club where he is the chairman of the pool table association. “I do frequently visit clubs for pool table tournaments and I’m the coordinator of Thika Pool Tournament Club and a member of Monjo's Pool Tournament,” he said. Dj Covenant is two-time champion of the pool tournament after he retained the title during the recently held tournament. The DJ who fears coating controversy, rallied Kenyan gospel artistes to compose and preach the word of God without fear. “Let those who are called to preach the word without coating controversy and we should stop judging people," he said. The gospel industry in Kenya has been facing a lot of criticism as some artists have been accused of incorporating secular influences into their music. The group has been called out for incorporating suggestive dance moves and lyrics in their songs that focus more on materialism and worldly success than on spiritual values. The gospel artistes have been criticised by some quarters that they are diluting the message of gospel music. Comedian Eric Omondi recently took a swipe at gospel artistes in the country claiming he had received the "message from God." In a video message, Omondi called out the musicians some of whom he alleged were engaging in immoral activities. While reminiscing about the days of Groove Awards and naming a few big names, the comic claimed the industry that was once the pride of the country has lost its glory.