The residents of Ridgeway on Thursday opened a security convergence centre dubbed Garden Estate Ridgeways Residents association (GARRA) to boost security status in the region. Residents had cried over the increasing trend in muggings, snatching, stealing, robbery with violence, and murder. The centre is fully equipped with Wi-Fi, a booking centre, and Water that will be used by officers stationed at the convergence centre. Speaking during the event, Kasarani deputy county commissioner Kamau Maina said that the station will be used to reduce the level of insecurity in the area. The DCC recalled the latest incident where a 24-year-old man Kigean Githua was stabbed to death by robbers riding on bodaboda. Maina said that the community Nyumba Kumi initiative will work to boost security and urged the members to report the wrongdoers in the society. “I would like to urge members of the community to work with officers who will be stationed here to improve security,” Maina said. He further urged police officers to serve the community with the utmost integrity and selflessness while executing their mandate. Starehe sub-county police commander Fred Abuga urged police to find ways of getting community policing to work for the security of all. He said crime will not be tolerated under his watch, saying police will use the powers bestowed upon them by the constitution to deal with the prevailing security challenges. He challenged the community leadership to strengthen the Nyumba Kumi initiative to address escalating cases of insecurity in the area. He said criminals resided within communities and that vigilant members of community policing were capable of flushing out the criminals. Garden Estate Ridgeways Residents association chair lady Mary Ann Wariithi said that they will be working closely with bodaboda riders and security agents. She said there is a need for residents to work closely with security officers to tame any form of crime. She further said that they have created active WhatsApp groups where they will be sharing information with the state security agencies from the village level up to the top organ. She urged locals to be supportive and adhere to peace and order. “We are doing this to secure our lives and we should support the wrongdoers in society," she said. Lucy Githua, mother to Keagan Githua said that a lot has happened since they demonstrated following the killing of his only child.