Three diaspora players have arrived home ahead of the FIBA Africa AfroBasket 2023 Zone Five Qualifiers starting tomorrow in Kampala, Uganda. Head coach George Mayienga revealed that Victoria Reynolds (Immortal Tcars, Portugal), Mercy Wanyama (AD Cortegada, Spain) and Rose Ouma (Qatar) who captained the side in the last show have joined the camp. The national side, who have been training at Nyayo National Stadium and Ulinzi Sports Complex courts, finally moved to the camp at Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani, where they held their last session. “The camp has been boosted immeasurably by the arrival of the trio. You could see the reaction of the girls during the training this morning. The trio is expected to play a key role in Kenya’s title defence.” He went on: “Their arrival has also brought in an element of competition in the last few training sessions that we have held together. We are only ironing out a few issues and we will be good to go,” Mayienga offered. Equity Bank Hawks shooting guard Melissa Akinyi will captain the side with Kenya Ports Authority playmaker Natalie Akinyi serving as an assistant. Ouma, who skippered the team in the last show, was named the team leader. “Ouma will be our team leader by virtue of her long experience at the top level and the leadership qualities she possesses. This is a role she will play to perfection as the girls have always shown great respect for her,” noted Mayienga. The six-day championship throws off at the MTN Arena, Lugogo, starting tomorrow with host Uganda, South Sudan and Egypt also expected to take part. Mayienga also confirmed that USA-based Felmas Koronga, who turns out for Troy University, will not be available due to college commitments. Koranga formed a deadly combination with Reynolds and Wanyama in the 2021 qualifiers in Kigali, Rwanda. Squad guards: Melissa Akinyi, Natalie Akinyi, Victoria Reynolds, Rose Ouma, Debra Obunga, Selina Okumu and Rachael Odhiambo; Front Court: Mercy Wanyama, Christine Akinyi, Vilma Owino, Maryann Nyagaki and Medina Okot; Officials: George Mayienga (head coach), Anthony Ojukwu (Assistant coach), Sylvia Kamau (Team Manager) Steve Opon (doctor), Farida Kavhere (physiotherapist), Eric Omondi (referee) and Angela Luchivya (HoD). 