5000 students from Kisumu county set to join form one in various schools across the country benefit from Sh5 million NG CDF bursaries and school items. The students who benefited are both from day and boarding schools. The students who could not hide their joy apart from the fees benefited from Bedsheeets, mattresses, shoes, and metallic boxes among other items from the Kisumu Central MP  Joshua Oron. Oron said they recognized that some of the kids even after giving them bursaries, can't go to school because they lacked the basic items required. "We are also ensuring that we provide items that will enable the parents to take their children to school," he said in Kisumu on Monday while distributing out the items. He added that the initiative recognized the uniqueness of Kisumu central constituency which has five slums with people still earning below a dollar. "By providing other items such as mattresses, blankets bedsheets, and shoes, we are helping the parents so that the kids can no longer have anything preventing them from going to school." The MP also added that people are coming from tough economic times and in the past few years from covid 19 some families are yet to stable up. Oron told the media that they started this process three weeks ago when they first dealt with the issues of form two, threes and fours and after completing form ones. They will now proceed with those who benefited from the bursaries in colleges. A total of 9,500 students both from secondary and University/tertiary/ colleges benefited from the Kisumu central NG CDF bursaries. A total of 8000 are from Secondary schools and 1500 from Tertiary, colleges. The area MP further stated that they want to ensure that education remains and becomes a priority for Kisumu Central Constituency. The MP added that he promised during the campaigns to scale up education in his constituency, but he will not lose focus on other sectors which include health, security and roads. One parent Mary Ochogo whose daughter benefits from the fees and school items noted that the cost of living has gone up and thanked the MP for coming to their aid. "When you have a child joining form one, more so in boarding schools, it becomes a challenge, because they are so many items required to be purchased and the MP has just reduced our burden," she said.