Governors will not relent in their push for Sh425 billion as the equitable share from the National government in the 2023/24 financial year. Kakamega Governor Fernandez Barasa says the Council of Governors has not changed its position over the matter in light of the Sh380 billion offered by the national government. Barasa who chairs the Finance, Planning, and Economic Affairs spoke on Tuesday during the official opening of the Second Session of the third County Assembly after a two-month recess. "As the chairperson of Finance, Planning and Economic Affairs at the Council of Governors, I know that we have a big challenge on the equitable share from the National Government. Last week we had a conversation with the President and the Executive and we are still pressing on as the counties and the governors we still maintain our position of the vertical share going to counties of Sh425 billion to be allocated to counties for FY 2023/24,” Barasa said. CoG and the national government have failed to broker an impasse over the allocation of the funds with the national government insisting that it can not offer more than the Sh380 billion on the table. While speaking on February in Mombasa during Parliament's post-election seminar, Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua said the most the government would do is try and push up the amount to Sh385 billion. "We swore with the Bible before God and the people of Kenya to always speak the truth. We have no 425 to give to the governors, we don't have 407, we will try to look for 385, we will try, we are not promising," Gachagua said. "So, if you want to hang us, we are helpless. If you want to remove our trousers and whip our backs, go ahead. We don't have the money," the DP added. Barasa, however, maintained that all the monies that have been allocated to the national government for devolved functions must be given to counties. He said that governors were hopeful that in the next one week, their clarion for the Sh425 billion would be addressed. He added that they were cognisant of the fact that the country has a huge debt burden and pending bills but their call will not affect their physical space by the National Assembly and the Senate. Barasa, however, said that for Kakamega county, his focus will be to grow own source revenue from Sh1.22 billion to a target of Sh2 billion or more as he sets sights on potentially hitting the Sh5.8 billion mark. “To realise this, my government has put in place a cashless system which will cut on the pilferages experienced before in some of our revenue streams,” Barasa said.