Students from Lwala Mixed Secondary School in Migori on Tuesday took to the streets to protest against the death of a learner who was hit and killed by a police van. Witnesses said the student was killed at 6am when police officers at a roadblock on the Migori-Kisii highway tried to stop a motorbike rider. The rider did not stop and police gave chase in their van. The rider disappeared in a nearby sugarcane plantation. During the chase, the police van ploughed through three students who were walking to school. One of them, a girl, died on the spot. The other two students and a woman pedestrian were injured and taken to Migori Referral Hospital. After the accident, which happened near the school, other students together with members of the public marched towards the Uriri subcounty education office to protest against the death of the girl. Along the way, they started pelting police vehicles and other vehicles on the road using stones. They also blocked the road using stones for close to an hour. Overwhelmed, police from Uriri called for backup from Migori town. The officers were forced to fire live bullets into the air and lob teargas to clear the road and prevent the protesters from marching to Migori town. The running battles lasted for two hours. The students then went to Uriri education office. Teacher Walter Nyambogo said, “We want to know if traffic rules only apply to the common mwananchi and not the police. The students were walking on a wide road when they were run over by the police vehicle.” “We have been shocked by the death and the incident. It is unfortunate that police resorted to firing guns and teargas which affected most students further.” South Kanyamkago MCA Graham Kagali said, “We will ensure the police officer involved in the accident and the victims get justice, and as a community we will also make sure peace prevails in the area.” Migori county police commander Mark Wanjala and Uriri deputy county commissioner Monica Kang’ethe said the incident was unfortunate and they will ensure investigations are carried out. “Police had tried to access the accident scene to collect evidence but students tried to stop them. They also harassed other motorists, otherwise nobody is above the law and we will launch investigations,” Wanjala said. Kang’ethe called for peace and calm as investigations continue. She said the three who were taken to hospital are in a stable condition. The police did not disclose how many police officer(s) were in the vehicle involved in the accident or their condition. The police vehicle overturned after hitting the students.