Last week, Kenyans were treated to another dose of Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua reckless remarks. Speaking on Sunday in Kericho county, Gachagua claimed that Kenya is a company with shareholders, going on to say alleged that those who voted for the Kenya Kwanza government have more shares than those that did not. The DP further said those who voted for the Kenya Kwanza government sowed, tilled, put manure and irrigated and its now their time to reap. In his imaginary world, there is a queue of Kenyans at the State House, where power, position and projects are handed out by the President and he, the son of Mau Mau, is controlling the queue ensuring those who voted for the day’s government skip the line for these goodies. Those that did not vote for the government, on the other hand, should wait to eat whatever falls from the rich man’s table like Lazarus in the Bible. These kind of comments are not only distasteful but also divisive. Article 131 of the Constitution envisages a presidency that promotes the unity of the nation and ensures the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and the rule of the law. Further, Article 10 of the Constitution provides for our national values that include national unity, participation of the people, equity, social justice, inclusiveness, equality, non-discrimination, protection of the marginalised and good governance. These values and principles bind all state officers, including Gachagua, and are expected to apply them when making and implementing public policy decision. Article 27 of the Constitution also demands that everyone is treated equally and should not be discriminated against directly or indirectly and on any ground, including political affiliation and/or non-affiliation. The Deputy President has on many occasions publicly professed his Christian faith. His utterances are, however, contrary to Christian values and only remind me of all the wrong answers in my Christian Religious Education examination: Everything that is not expected of a good Christian. In referring to Kenya as a company with shareholders, Gachagua is going against the spirit of Article 1 of the Constitution, where the sovereign power belongs to the people, and the power he enjoys has been delegated by the people. He also goes against the Kenya Kwanza campaign slogan of “bottom up’ where power belongs to the “hustlers’. Implementation of national projects and development in Kenya selectively is not a new thing. Previous administrations have entrenched the tokenism culture, where those that are in support of the government are favoured and those that did not vote for the presidency are punished by seclusion. This approach to development agenda by different regimes has led to marginalisation and victimization of certain communities and regions. With clear separation of powers and introduction of devolution, the Constitution sought to correct this. However, as seen after the handshake between former President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga, the implementation of national government projects at the regional level is still a preserve of those that are close to the presidency. We have also recently seen opposition leaders being hoodwinked to supporting the government in exchange of development projects in their constituencies. President Ruto’s visit to Nyanza counties, which is perceived as an opposition stronghold, after his election was meant to challenge the norm. However, his actions and his deputy’s remarks go against the same. Gachagua seems to have not yet gotten over the August, 2022 elections. His words and actions portray a man who still holds grudges against those that were in the previous administration as well as those who did not vote for the Kenya Kwanza government. In expressing his disappointment, the Deputy President is promoting favouritism and entrenching division. He has quickly forgotten that of the oath he took six months ago to always diligently serve Kenyans and do justice without favour or ill will. His remarks are, however, a reflection of some administrative actions by the new government. It has failed the inclusivity and diversity test. We have seen an imbalanced appointment of government officials with certain ethnic communities receiving the lion share. The remarks beg the question: Will development be implemented selectively based on who voted for Kenya Kwanza? What will happen to those who did note for Ruto? Gachagua should wake up and realise those who did not vote and those that voted for other candidates deserve the national government services and development projects and should be part of the government. The famous national cake should be shared equally. Muthuri Kathure is the senior program officer (Civic Space) at Article 19 Eastern Africa. @MuthuriKathure