The Ministry of Health has urged the county governments to come up with policies and laws that will guide food vendors on hygiene standards to tackle frequent cholera outbreaks in the country. Speaking in Madogo, Tana River county, director of public health Dr Francis Kuria said that food vendors with questionable hygiene standards are key drivers of cholera. Other factors cited include congestion especially in refugee camps in Garissa county, sourcing of water from contaminated areas, especially in Arid and Semi-Arid areas, unregulated water vendors and poor sanitation in informal areas. To curb the spread of cholera Nairobi, Garissa, Tana River and Wajir counties have been targeted for oral vaccination. The four counties are classified as the most affected in a bid to control the outbreak which has so far affected 4607 persons and claimed 84 lives. The vaccination will be administered to all persons above one year and they are advised not to drink water in the first few minutes after receiving the jab. “As counties, we want to ask all the governors to put in place by-laws to make sure that the food sources we have are all operated in high hygiene standards,” Kuria said. “For us to fast track the containment of the outbreak we must therefore rise up and collectively address these drivers which call for a stronger multi-sectoral cooperation among the partners." Kuria, however, noted that vaccination alone will not control the disease and that people must observe other sustainable and control measures like safe water and sanitation practices. He further urged citizens to desist from self-medication when they start to reveal the signs of cholera. “We urge you, if a person starts vomiting and to diarrhea, let them be rushed to the health facilities as fast as possible. What kills patients is lack of body fluids which when administered in health facilities the person will live,” Kuria said. Tana River deputy governor Mahat Loka rallied the community members to come out in large numbers and receive the vaccine noting that it is safe with no side effects. Cholera is an acute diarrhoeal illness caused by infection of the intestines with vibro cholerae bacteria. Symptoms in the early stages include profuse watery diarrhea, vomiting, rapid heart rate, loss of skin elasticity, dry mucous membranes, low blood pressure, thirst, muscle cramps, and relentless or irritability. The infection is often mild or without symptoms, but can sometimes be severe and life-threatening.