United Nations Children's Fund (Unicef) has pledged to support children who continue to suffer from the ongoing drought in the country. This comes as children continue to bear the brunt of the drought that has hit the country due to failed five consecutive rain seasons. UNICEF Kenya Representative Shaheen Nilofer has noted that children lack access to safe water and sanitation, making them vulnerable to diseases such as diarrhoea. "The drought in Turkana impacts children’s health and nutrition. Lack of water provision poses a major challenge," Nilofer said. "UNICEF is supporting the government's drought response efforts to reach the most vulnerable. We will continue until every child is safe," she added. Nilofer has made a visit to counties worst hit by drought including Turkana to assess the impact of the ongoing drought and UNICEF's support to children and families. At the start of her visit, she met Turkana County Deputy Governor, Dr John Erus, to discuss the situation before visiting the Lodwar County Referral Hospital to see UNICEF's support for health and nutrition, including treatment of children with acute malnutrition. UNICEF together with the county government is ensuring integrated multi-sectorial outreach services including access to safe water and sanitation. According to the 2022 short rains season assessment by the Ministry of East African Community, Arid and Semi-Arid Lands (ASALs) and Regional Development, over 500,000 more food-insecure people have been identified in nine additional counties. The nine non-ASAL counties assessed as of February 2023 include Machakos, Homa Bay, Migori, Siaya, Elgeyo Marakwet, Kiambu, Nakuru, Kirinyaga and Murang'a. The malnutrition status of children and women is worsening in Turkana, Marsabit, Mandera, Isiolo, Garissa, Baringo and Samburu counties. Malnutrition levels in these counties are above emergency of 15 per cent. The ministry indicated that over 970,000 children below five years and 142,000 pregnant and breastfeeding mothers require urgent lifesaving treatment for malnutrition. This is an increase compared to 884,000 cases reported in July 2022.