Kanduyi MP John Makali has said that MPs drawn from the agriculture committee in the national assembly are pushing for the allocation of funds towards the revival of the ailing Nzoia sugar company. In an Interview with the press on Tuesday at his home, Makali said that the Kenya Kwanza government led by President William Ruto and his deputy Rigathi Gachagua has embarked on fulfilling their pledges noting that reviving the sugar sector was one of Ruto’s plans. “During our campaigns in all parts of this country, we pledged to revive the sugar sector among other priority issues,” Makali said. The Ford Kenya MP noted that in the upcoming supplementary budget, MPs in the agriculture committee have proposed the allocation of half a billion shillings towards Nzoia Sugar Company to help settle huge debts, pay workers and farmers. “I appreciate President William Ruto for appointing my brother Khang’ati to serve as Nzoia sugar company board chairman, we believe and trust in him that he will deliver and change Nzoia,” he said. He said that for 12 months, farmers and workers have not been paid. Kanduyi MP John Makali has also asked the government to increase the payment of the Inua Jamii programme. The MP argues that the stipend given to the elderly should be increased from Sh2,000 to something reasonable. "The government should increase the stipend at least to Sh4,000 from the current Sh2,000," said Makali. He also asked for streamlining of the payments saying the aged persons are going through a lot of difficulties when trying to access their money. He suggested that the payment points should be taken to local markets to stop them from crowding in towns. "The ministry of social services should ensure that paying points are in the villages to stop the beneficiaries from travelling long distances to access the funds,” he said. Makali also said the ministry should ensure that their stipends are paid on time. "Currently the aged are being paid their stipends after four to six months, the government should ensure that the elderly get it every month,” he noted. He said as members of parliament they were going to ensure that the elderly are better paid and in a timely manner.