Interior CS Kithure Kindiki has cautioned Azimio leader Raila Odinga and his team against breaking the law during their public barazas. Kindiki said the opposition had the right to demonstrate, as long as they maintained peace. Speaking on Monday during a briefing of his Ministry's strides in the last three months, Kindiki however warned that in the case the protest turns chaotic, actions will be taken. "I have no business with those who are doing demonstrations. Actually, I don't care on one condition, that they keep law and order," he said. "The day they will try to break the law, to breach the peace or to incite public disorder, that is the day the full weight of the Ministry of Interior will come on them." At the same time, Kindiki assured that the ministry was going to work objectively, and not be a tool of vengeance or "I have told all politicians, they are my friends and allies when they are helping me make Kenya a secure country. The moment they pose a threat to that aspiration they are my clients in another sense," he added. On Sunday, Raila unveiled a youth resistance movement dubbed "movement for the defence of democracy". During the Kamukunji grounds meeting, the ODM leader, who has stood his ground that President William Ruto did not win the elections, listed reasons as to why the Kenya Kwanza administration should resign. They included the tax increment, which Raila said showed that Ruto did not care about the citizens. He also said Ruto had lied in his manifesto that he was going to form a government for the 'mama mboga', only to unveil a government run by billionaires. The Kibra rally was the third that Raila has held since the year began. The previous rallies were held on January 23 and 29 at Kamukunji and Jacaranda grounds respectively. The chief opposition leader announced that they will hold a public consultative meeting in Mavoko, Machakos on Friday, February 10. On Sunday, February 12, they will be in Busia County then they will head to Rift Valley, Coast and the Mt Kenya region.