Shujaa will be aiming to move out of the relegation zone when they go hunting for points at the Los Angeles Sevens this weekend. Damian MCGrath's charges, who are 12th on the log with 21 points from five tournaments, will be aiming to move to the top ten ahead of the Vancouver leg next weekend. The squad arrived in Los Angeles on Monday and had two days of light training on Tuesday and Wednesday. Kenya open their campaign against Australia on Saturday at 9:43pm (EAT). Shujaa drew 19-19 with the Aussies in December. This was after losing 40-14 to their matchday opponents in August in Los Angeles and fell 7-5 at the Commonwealth Games in Birmingham in July. Shujaa' s second match will be against the Olympic and world champions Fiji at 1:18am. Kenya met the Pacific Islanders at last month's Hamilton Sevens in New Zealand with Fiji running comfortably 21-7 winners . At the Dubai Sevens in December the Fijians narrowly beat Kenya 21-17 in a pulsating encounter. Kenya's final pool match will be against Japan at 4:37am. This will be the first meeting between both teams this season. They met last season in successive weekends in the Toulouse and London with Japan winning 28-12 in France before Kenya bounced back to win 14-5 in the UK. McGrath said  the return of the experienced Billy Odhiambo will be a big boost as the side looks at accumulating more points to leave the drop zone. "Happy to have him back. He is very experienced alongside Nelson (Oyoo) and Buffa (Alvin Otieno) and will be key for this tournament as well as the next one," said McGrath. The Englishman observed that they have improved their basic skills though they are 'still work in progress'. "We are headed in the right direction. We are better than we are a year ago,” he said. He said they have had good training so far and are raring to give the Aussies a tough match in the pool opener. “They (Australia) are one of the top teams on the circuit but we have to match them in facets of play and mimimise our error rate,” noted MCgrath. Skipper Oyoo has called on the Kenyans residing in the USA to turn up in large numbers and cheer the team.