Sorrow Friday engulfed the little-known Kamugunda village in Mwea of Kirinyaga county as slain NHIF staff Mary Lilian Waithera was being laid to rest. The solemn event was attended by among others her family members, colleagues, friends and members of the clergy who eulogized Waithera as a hard worker, a doting mother to two sons and a loving wife. Waithera's death they said was a big blow into the lives of the family members and the nation at large owing to her industrious and committed spirit. While condemning the inhuman and painful death meted on the departed soul, the mourners called for a speedy investigation into the mysterious death. Catholic priest Father Wilfred Mwaura termed the murder as heinous and called on those who conspired and executed the brutal act to repent lest they face God's wrath. He said it was wrong to cut short the life of a person whose future was promising and luminous. "Life is precious and no one has the right to take it away. Those involved should repent or face God's wrath," he said. Family members led by the deceased 's brother-in-law Robert Mbogo condemned the death of their kin describing it as a murder most foul. Mbogo said their relative was brutally eliminated for unknown motives thus calling on the authorities to serve justice to the family. He said the family despite having forgiven the killers, ought to have their day in court for cutting short the life of the 47-year-old. "We have forgiven those who killed our daughter but we are urging the state to arrest them and bring them to book," he said. His sentiment were echoed by Waithera's sister-in-law Rosemary Wanjiru who said that the departed's memories will forever be cherished and etched in their minds. Waithera died on February 13, after mysteriously collapsing along Kaunda street in Nairobi's CBD as she was leaving work in the company of her colleague. Efforts to save her life proved futile as she was pronounced dead at the scene by medical practitioners who responded to the emergency. An autopsy done on her body days later revealed a bullet lodged in her lungs.