Tusker head coach Robert Matano ripped into the centre referee Meshak Omondi after his charges went down 2-1 to record champions Gor Mahia at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Wednesday. Matano claimed they were forced to lose the Round of 15 Kenyan Premier League match due to questionable officiating, further dampening their hopes of winning a second consecutive title. Sydney Ochieng put Gor Mahia ahead in the 31st minute of play before Shami Mwinyi restored parity in the 52nd minute. However, it was Benson Omalla's 84th-minute conversion from the spot that upset Matano who thought the penalty was unfairly awarded.“That was not a penalty, it was outside the box, I saw it." "If you are forced to lose the game then there is nothing you can do. Even the first goal was questionable. Both were wrong decisions," Matano said lividly. “I'm not used to complaining about referees but today the ref did us a lot of harm than good. That's not the way we should play football. We ought to lose fairly." The seasoned gaffer, however, said all was not lost and they will continue to unleash all the remaining ammunition to ensure they remain in contention. “We'll do our best to ensure we remain in contention but all I'm asking is for the games to be officiated fairly. Those who deserve to win should be allowed to win." Gor Mahia head coach Jonathan McKinstry lauded his charges for exhibiting great character in the tough encounter. “Today was a really tough game but three points have helped us keep up with the leading pack. McKinstry, nonetheless, lashed out at their opponent's style of play which he described as unattractive. “Playing against our opponents was hard. I don't want to be too critical but I think we all know that Tusker is spending close to a million dollars on the team but I don't see much football being played. “They kept playing long balls which I don't think is something good for Kenyan football. "Nzoia Sugar's Salim Babu showered flowery words on his charges after they thumped Kariobangi Sharks 3-1 at Utalii grounds to consolidate their position at the summit of the log. “This is great. We are growing more and more confident with each win. Today was another great afternoon for us and we are not ready to let go of our title aspirations this season," Babu said. He added: "When we started the season, the intention was to avoid relegation and maintain our status as a top-flight club but now everything is quite possible." In other matches, Police continued with their splendid run after edging Nairobi City Stars 2-1 at Kasarani Annex while Mathare United beat Vihiga Bullets 1-0.