While it is well known that the body needs at least eight glasses of water each day to function properly, the right time to drink has been subjected to debate. Some people prefer consuming water before meals, others alongside meals while some do it after eating. Water and other soft drinks help break down food so that your body can absorb nutrients. Water also makes stool softer, which helps prevent constipation. Doctors say it is not advisable not to drink too soon before or after a meal as the water will dilute the digestive juices. They recommend that water should be taken about an hour after the meal to allow the body to absorb the nutrients. They also advice that one should drink one glass of water 30 minutes before a meal to help digestion. Many people have the habit of emptying glasses of water as they eat, thinking that they are washing down the food and assisting in the digestive process. Nutritionists however dismiss the belief strongly. Studies show that the practice severely hampers digestion by diluting the essential gastric juices and may even cause an upsurge in insulin levels. Nutritionist Anju Sood from Florida, US says it roughly takes two hours to digest what you eat. “If you consume water at the wrong time, you are not only disturbing the fluid component by diluting what you eat. You are also fastening the digestion process as the food now enters the large intestine much sooner than it should,” she said. She says it is not advisable to have water just before your meal. She also strongly dismisses the idea of having water alongside meals, “as it not only fastens digestion but also tampers the natural absorption of nutrients after digestion.” “Some people who drink water alongside meals have also shown a tendency to have an expanded colon,” she said. A healthy lifestyle is fundamentally dependent on drinking enough water daily and at the right time. Not only does it keep you hydrated, but it also supports important internal processes including removing toxins from the body, producing saliva, and delivering nutrients to various body parts, according to doctors. Doctors warn that if you don't drink enough water, one risks the danger of developing health issues like dehydration and joint and muscle pain. Fitness experts also warn against drinking water during a meal, arguing that in doing so, one hampers the stomach's digestive powers.