Garissa education officials have praised Ijara MP Abdi Ali’s efforts to improve standards in the area, asking other leaders to emulate him. Speaking to the press, Garissa Knut executive Abdirizak Hussein said the level of education in the region was still low compared to other parts of the country. Any effort to uplift it should be supported. In December, the youthful first-term MP promised to offer full scholarship to all students in the constituency who enrol in teaching courses and other professional courses. Most non-local teachers have fled for fear of terrorist attacks. And two weeks ago, the MP  met education stakeholders including principals, Ministry of Education and TSC officials to draw a roadmap to implement his pledge. He said the meeting was a culmination of ongoing talks about access to quality basic education in his constituency. The Knut boss said that the leaders have a very big role to play in uplifting the education standards by ensuring a big chunk of the funds are pumped into the sector. Most schools in Garissa, Wajir and Mandera do not have enough teacher mainly because of security concerns that caused many employees to flee. “As education stakeholders we have several times appealed to the TSC to post enough teachers to our schools but that seems to be a song the government has gotten used to. So the time has come for our leaders to take full control of and find a lasting solution to this issue once and for all,” he said. Abdirizak said the biggest problem has been lack of good leadership and political good will from the local leaders where more Form 4 leavers would be encouraged to take up teaching courses and assured of full sponsorship. Such an arrangement, he said, would have seen many joining teaching colleges. “I sincerely want to commend the MP for the move he has taken to uplift the education standards in his area As the old adage goes. a journey of a thousand miles starts with a single km. The results might not be visible right now but in the next few years it will be seen since we will have more local teachers in our institutions. Ijara subcounty director of education Ibrahim Odowa said many children are not going to school because their parents cannot afford to pay for their schools. he said this was having a negative a negative impact on the education sector. "Most of our school going children are out of school because parents cannot afford school fees. Parents of Ijara have no excuse to deny their children secondary education now the MP has assured he will pay school fees for all students. We expect an  improvement in enrollment in the coming years," Odowa said. In a statement on his Facebook page, he  advised  all eligible persons to collect application forms from Ijara CDF office between February 3 and 15 and submit them for processing. “In my quest to provide free secondary education and  sponsor students pursuing teaching courses, I have also called for applications from my constituents to be considered for payment of school fees for those pursuing other courses in various colleges and universities,” he stated. He added, “ Please note that it’s the responsibility of the individual student/parent to make the formal application. Only those whose application forms have been appropriately filled and submitted on time shall be considered." “All payments to secondary schools, colleges and universities shall be strictly based on the data provided in the application form. Applications are therefore requested to get necessary certifications/approvals from their respective institutions for seamless and timely disbursement." Speaking at a recent function in Masalani town, Abdi said he was determined that during his tenure education is accessible and affordable and that no child shall drop out of school on account of lack of school fees. Abdi, commonly referred to as ‘Shekhow’ by his supporters,  had three weeks ago formed a team of experienced educationists to probe the status of education. The report that will presented to him in the next few days will form the basis for his action in the critical sub-sector. (Edited by V. Graham)