Labour PS Geoffrey Kaituko on Tuesday met private recruitment agencies and home care training providers. The meeting was aimed at deliberating on reviewing the current process of migration of skilled labourers and pre-departure training of migrant workers. Key on the agenda was also a discussion on how best to streamline the process of migration of migrants to other foreign countries. “The discussions were between private recruitment agencies, National Industrial Training Authority and the National Employment Authority Acting Director General Edith Okoki,” the Ministry of Labour said. Also present were departure training providers, representatives of the Kenyan Association of Private Employment Agencies, representatives of the Association of Skilled Migrant Agencies of Kenya and the vetting committee for private recruitment agencies. This comes as the government puts in efforts to address the perennial challenge of Kenyan migrant workers who continue to suffer in foreign countries. The Gulf countries, for instance, rely on millions of foreign workers such as housemaids, fitness instructors, metro-train employees, hotel cleaners and waiters, caregivers, nannies, drivers, and security guards. The Central Organisation of Trade Unions secretary general Francis Atwoli on Wednesday paid a courtesy call to the labour CS Florence Bore. Atwoli said he will work with the government, employers and other solidarity partners to ensure the ILO C190 is ratified. The ILO Convention No. 190 (or C190) is the first international treaty to recognize the right of everyone to a world of work free from violence and harassment, including gender-based violence and harassment. The treaty seeks to eliminate violence and harassment at work. “Working together with the government, employers and our solidarity partners we commit to ensuring that during, ILO C190 is ratified, outsourcing of labour is stopped and generally the terms and conditions of employment of Kenya workers are improved,” Atwoli said.