Leaders from Kilifi have called on the national government not to privatise public universities as that would hurt higher education at the Coast. They said once universities are privatised, it will be a big blow to the region. Led by Fikirini Jacobs, a university union student leader, they said the government should ensure equal allocation of funds to all the universities to attract more students. Jacobs said previous placement of Taita Taveta University was only 300 slots. That, he said, is too low and and resulted in low funding from the government. He spoke in Malindi during a prize-giving ceremony for teachers and schools organised by MP Amina Mnyazi. “Recently, we have heard about plans by the government to privatise some of our universities, and when I look at our region, there is a threat because when I look at the previous placement at Taita Taveta University which is a fully fledged university, it’s a public university and was given 300 students only by the government,” he said. Surprisingly, Jacobs said some of the private universities outside Coast region have more than 5,000 students, which means such institutions get more funding from the government than those with few students. Normally, he said, when the number of students is low it means funding will be low and there will be low development in such university. “We fear that when the axe of privatisation hits it will affect the universities which got low placement from the government,” he said. Jacobs urged the government to ensure the coastal universities remain intact and get more students to reach the level of Kenyatta, Moi and Nairobi universities. Once that is done, he said more students will come down the Coast for studies and the development of the universities will be possible. Mnyazi said as leaders they were committed to cooperate with teachers and parents to get good results. The KCSE exam results for 2022 Malindi constituency did not get an A plain, which she said was worrying but expressed optimism that through cooperation, there can be an improvement. She said the notion that Coast people do not go to school needs to come to an end, adding that it begins with the steps of cooperation among teachers, parents and leadership. “We have no As in the KCSE in Malindi, those who got A minus are two while those who got B+ in 2021 they were 14 students while in 2022 they were 12 students,” she said. The legislator said those who scored B in 2021 were 37 and in 2022 were 36, adding that those who had B- in 2021 were 74 while in 2022 they were 88. Those who got C+ in 2021, she said, were 162 while in 2022 they were 122. “I would like to tell teachers this: I know there are many challenges in terms of teachers, leaders, infrastructure [and] laws but now you have the goodwill of leaders who are ready to cooperate with you because we value education,” he said. Matuga MP Kassim Tandaza said education was key because no parents have anything important to give to their child other than education. The MP thanked Mnyazi for taking education seriously. Kilifi Woman Representative Getrude Mbeyu said there is need for students to perform well from C+ and above so as to be able to go to universities. “We are lucky as Kilifians because we have our own university here, Pwani University, but if I were to ask how many of our own children have joined the university, it is too low,” she said. Malindi MCA Rashid Odhiambo said it’s the responsibility of parents, leaders and teaches to ensure education standards improve. He challenged teachers to ensure that they produce As in Malindi constituency as that is the only way to ensure the standards of education improve. “In Kilifi county the number of As produced are very few, which makes it difficult for students to take the courses that are competitive,” he said. (Edited by V. Graham)