The Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) has asked the court to sentence six foreigners, who were convicted last Friday for trafficking in Sh1.3 billion heroin sentenced in 2014, for life. The DPP also wants the Magistrate Court that has been handling the case to impose a fine equivalent to three times the market value of the drugs. Last week, Mombasa Chief Magistrate ruled that the six foreigners; Mohamed Saleh, Yakoob Ibrahim, Saleem Muhammad, Bhatti Abdulghafour, Baksh Moula and Pak Abdolghaffer, were guilty of trafficking drugs into the country. They were crew members of the vessel, Al Noor, whose destruction in the deep seas was supervised by former President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2014. Three Kenyans who had been charged alongside the six foreigners were last week acquitted for lack of sufficient evidence against them. The foreigners were found guilty of trafficking 377.2 kilograms of creamish heroin, and 33,200 litres of liquid heroin. They were also found with 2,400 litres of diesel mixed with heroin on diverse dates between July 2 and 18, 2014, at the Port of Mombasa. On Wednesday, Senior Assistant DPP Alexander Muteti asked the court to impose such harsh sentences on foreigners to deter anyone planning to engage in drug trafficking. Muteti asked the court to take notice of the youths hooked on drug menace, urging the court not to have mercy on the elderly foreigners and ensure they pay the price of their crime. He told the court that the accused persons deliberately engaged in criminal conduct endangering the country's future generations. Mutuku had last week ruled that the evidence and exhibits provided placed the foreigners at the centre of the crime and found that the drugs were carefully concealed inside their ship, which took detectives days to discover. Further, the court said the destruction of the MV AL Noor was irrelevant to the trial because it occurred after adequate documentation of the crime scene, drug seizure, and testing. The court is expected to sentence the six foreigners on March 10, 2023