Azimio la Umoja have made a series of resolutions following their rally in Kitale, Trans Nzoi county on Sunday. Top on the list is that they will continue to hold peaceful demonstrations across they country. They said they recognise that only a legitimate government that is elected by the people and enjoys the confidence of citizens can put people at the centre of its agenda. "We, therefore, support calls for rejection of a government that came to power by usurping and manipulating people's will as expressed at the ballot," they said. The team led by Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka and Martha Karua said that in rejecting such a regime, as currently prevailing in the country, require legal, constitutional and peaceful means. "Article 37 of our Constitution states that every person has the right, physically and unarmed to assemble, to demonstrate to picket and to present petitions to public authorities," they said. The leaders said that given the prevailing economic situation in the country, they support calls for the government to stop or be forced to stop the creation of more offices like the Chief Administrative Secretary. "We find this effort to be a confirmation of the insensitivity of the Kwanza Kwanza to the sufferings and priorities of Kenyans" "We state categorically that this is not the time to create offices and positions for Kenya Kwanza political rejects and crooks," they said. Instead, they added, Kenya Kwanza must be forced to direct all resources towards making life livable for all our citizens. "We demand the reduction of the prices of basic commodities and services, including unga, sugar, petrol, diesel, paraffin, transport and school fees among others by restoring subsidies that existed prior to the Kenya Kwanza regime." The Azimio outfit said instead of introducing GMO crops, Government should support farmers by providing them with subsidies and protecting them from dumping products imported by politically incorrect individuals. "We shall not hesitate to resort to people's power to realise the objectives to get a cleanser to act in 10 days," they said.