They are threatening to kill elephants. Kalunda Ngumbi is one of the many Shimba hills residents in Kwale county who have suffered massive crop losses following the frequent elephant feeding frenzies. They use their tusks, which don't conduct electricity, to  pry the wires apart and get through. Ngumbi is likely to be forced to wait until another season to harvest if the elephants can't be contained soon. Almost all her crops and a countless number of coconut trees have been destroyed. For several months the elephants have been feeding on her maize, fruits and vegetables. "The elephants have eaten everything, I am tired of this kind of life," she told the Star. The human-wildlife conflict has been on the rise due to the drought in some parts of Kwale. The animals are reported to be moving out from Tsavo National Park. Last year, Kwale KWS senior warden Jacob Orahle said the elephants were crossing to Tanzania through Kinango, Shimba Hills and Lunga-Lunga from Tsavo National Park in search of food. Ngumbi said the locals always live in fear as rogue elephants invade and terrorise their villages in search of food and water. "We have no peace, the animals throng our water catchment areas and destroy crops," she said. The elephants and other wild animals' invasions have also claimed the lives of residents in different areas across the county. On Tuesday last week, elephants attacked and killed a man by the name Jefa Nyanje on his way home to Mnarani in Lunga-Lunga subcounty. Last year in October a 10-year girl was torn to pieces by an elephant that attacked her at their home in Mwereni and another man was seriously injured in Godo within Lunga-Lunga subcounty. In 2021 two children aged one and two were killed and three adults were seriously injured by hungry hyenas at Baisa village in Kinango. The hyenas fed on the babies' brains making it the worst animal attack to have happened in the region. More than 10 people had lost their lives through human-wildlife conflict in a four-year period. Ngumbi said one of his grandsons is currently nursing injuries. He got hurt while escaping charged elephants. The old woman expressed fear that her grandchildren would have nothing to inherit and eat because of the uncontrolled wild animals. Resident Agatha Musyoka said they are staring at possible poverty and hunger  since farms are no longer productive because of the elephants' invasions. "There is a fruit processing plant that will be opened soon. We don't know how we will benefit from it since our fruits and crops are being destroyed every day," she said. Musyoka said they hardly have enough to eat because elephants have caused havoc on their farms. She said they are unable to fetch water fearing attack by elephants who have made their lives miserable. Musyoka said they fear each time could be their last as the villages are no longer safe. Francis Nganda said the elephants use their tusks to break through the electric Shimba Hills National Reserve fence. He said some elephants are very intelligent and have learned to use their tusks to pull wires up and down to break through the electric fences, which brings them into contact with people, potentially causing danger to both sides. The tusks are believed to be poor conductors of electricity. Nganda said he has lost a number of his banana and maize crops each time the elephants break through. He said unfortunately they don't have the energy to battle them because they are so powerful. "When they come we are forced to run for our lives leaving our crops behind," he said. Martin Taura said baboons and monkeys also contribute to their suffering. He said they will be forced to take the matter into their hands if the government will fail to contain the animals. Recently, Orahle reported a decrease in cases of human-wildlife conflicts despite following enhanced surveillance by KWS officers. "The cases were many but for now, we can say they have largely reduced. Our officers have done an excellent job," he said in an interview. Orahle cautioned the residents to be careful as the wild animals from time to time try to escape the national parks due to drought. He urged them to report the cases for swift action and shun confronting the wild animals as it further aggravates the problem. County commissioner Gideo Oyagi also urged the residents to coexist peacefully with the wild animals and provide necessary information to help KWS effectively contain the animals and prevent disasters. (Edited by V. Graham)