Nairobi Senator Edwin Sifuna has revealed why the Azimio La Umoja coalition party axed his Isiolo counterpart Fatuma Dullo from the senate leadership. On Wednesday, Opposition chief Raila Odinga announced changes in the Senate leadership where Narok Senator Ledama Olekina is the new Minority Whip taking over from  Dullo. Sifuna is now the deputy minority whip replacing Ledama. The opposition coalition retained Steward Madzayo and Enoch Wambua as the minority leader and deputy minority leader respectively. Speaking on Thursday, Sifuna explained that the responsibilities which come with the office of the Whip are not to be taken lightly and requires someone who is a steadfast believer in the position taken by the party represented. "It is a very dangerous thing to have the whip in the hand of somebody who has fundamental differences or serious opinion from the coalition he /she’s expected to lead," he said. Responding to why the party never consulted Dullo on the changes, Sifuna explained that the 'rebels' never consulted the party when they decided to go to State House. "It is not a matter of asking or consulting the individual, these same people never consulted the party when they were going to State House. The rebels made their decision and we respect everyone’s right of association," he said. The Nairobi Senator further stated that the axe fell on Dullo because she was advancing the political agenda of a party other than the one she belonged to. As a result, one is deemed to have defected which, according to Sifuna, is a self-executing law. "The Azimio coalition has taken a position that we don't recognize Ruto as the President of Kenya and if you have a fundamental problem with that position, the only honourable thing to do is to exit the coalition," he added. Dullo was among the 32 Jubilee legislators who met President William Ruto at the State House last week. They also vowed to support and work with the Kenya Kwanza government. In addition, Sifuna highlighted that de-whipping someone or changing the leadership of the house should not be viewed as a punishment to the individual but as securing the interests of the coalition party " This is because if you have the leadership of your coalition in the hands of people who don't have your agenda, then it is going to be very difficult given the powers they have under the standing orders," he said.