Mount Kenya University has renewed the contract of Chancellor John Struthers. The institution also renewed the contract of Prof. David K. Serem who is the university council's chairperson. Mary Munyiva Olubayi was appointed to be a member of the council in changes. The announcement was made on Wednesday on the university website. Prof John Struthers is an experienced scholar, a respected economist, and an effective leader with more than 40 years of experience in academia, research, and administration in the United Kingdom and African universities. He has published widely in a range of notable economics journals. Struthers is a longstanding member of the Westminster Africa Business Group in London. He was appointed Honorary Consul for Ethiopia in Scotland in 2015. He was appointed as a Personal Professor at the University of West of Scotland (UWS) (then the University of Paisley) in 1996. He has been Dean of the Faculty of Business at UWS, Head of the Department of Economics and Enterprise, and founding Head of the UWS Graduate School. On other hand, Prof. David K. Serem was described as a seasoned educational administrator and researcher. He holds a Doctor of Education degree in Administration of Higher Education from the University of Wyoming, USA. He has served as a Board Member of Kenya Airways, the National Housing Corporation (NHC), and the Kenya Industrial Research and Development Institute (KIRDI). Serem has undertaken several courses and attended several Seminars in Management including Corporate Governance. In addition, Serem has taught and supervised postgraduate students at the Masters and Doctoral levels. He currently serves as a Chairman of Kipkeino High School and is a member of the Board of Management of Kapsabet Girls Secondary School, Nandi County. Mary Munyiva Olubayi was also appointed as a council member. She holds a Master of Education Degree in Educational Administration and Planning from The Catholic University of Eastern Africa (CUEA). She also holds a certificate in Transformational Leadership from the International Leadership University (IUL). She was 2019 awarded by the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KNCCI) Women in Business Chapter as the Winner of the Fastest Growing Women-led/owned Businesses.