Wajir Governor Ahmed Abdullahi has assured all needy learners who sat last year's KCPE exams that they will be assisted by his administration to pursue their education. Abdullahi was, however, quick to warn well-off parents who have a tendency of seeking bursaries and donations that his administration will be strict and weed them out. He termed the behaviour as immoral and ungodly as it denies deserving children in dire need of assistance the only opportunity to pursue their studies. "This programme does not give a license to those that are able not to be willing to pay. Those that are to pay fees must pay. We are talking about those that are completely not able to pay," the governor said. "We will not leave any child behind. There will be no Form One child who will not be assisted who is due to join school in this county. If they don’t get from the CDF, and we know they have no means to report to school let us be informed and we will assist,” he added. Governor Abdullahi was speaking outside his office in Wajir town after chairing a special county steering group meeting on drought mitigation. The governor who is also the vice chair at the Council of Governors, said the current drought ravaging the region has rendered many parents who depend on their livestock unable to even carter for their families, leave alone take their children to school. Abdullahi said that he has instructed the county education executive to come up with a list of all the students who were supposed to have joined Form One but for one reason or another have not been able to. He said his administration is focusing mainly on those who have not received bursaries from CDF and other organisations. “This programme is in support of the government's 100 per cent transition and as a county, we don’t want to be left behind,” he said. Abdullahi said although the region is faced with other challenges among them shortage of teachers and infrastructure, the priority is to ensure that all school-going children are in class. "I want to reiterate the importance of education of our children because this is the sure way of ensuring that they have a future. Resources may not be enough but we shall prioritise education,” he said. Abdullahi called on head teachers and principles not to send children home because of school fees saying that the current situation that has seen almost 80 per cent of the population lose their livelihood due to drought was not making things any better. "The school heads should empathise with our population and allow the students in school with the little resources that we are able to raise. I'm sure they understand the prevailing condition. They should not give a blind eye,” he said. On Monday, Abdullahi urged the national government and humanitarian partners to support his administration in assisting the  drought-stricken families in the county. While speaking during the launch of relief food distribution by the county government, the governor said the emergency food availed so far by the government and partners was not sufficient to mitigate the effects of drought. Wajir and the neighbouring counties in Northeastern did not receive adequate rainfall during the October–November short rains season. The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) in its January 2023 bulletin painted a worrying picture in 23 counties that have been classified as either in the alarm or alert phase of drought. More than 400,000 people in the county which is at the alarm phase are facing acute food shortage with the number projected to rise to above 420,000 by March.