AFC Leopards' head coach Patrick Aussems has extolled his charges after they ripped FC Talanta apart in an entertaining Kenyan Premier League clash at Nyayo Stadium on Thursday. Aussems said Thursday's 6-0 thumping of Talanta was an indication that his team had attained maturity, adding that they had every reason to celebrate the feat after a tough start to the season. Victor Omune was the toast of the day, netting four goals to fire AFC Leopards past Talanta at Nyayo Stadium on Thursday. Harambee Stars midfielder, Cliff Nyakeya, then added a brace to seal the fate of the Ken Kenyatta-tutored side. Leopards dictated the proceedings throughout the entire match, entertaining the stands with a brilliant display of short and crisp passes that left their opponents chasing after the ball. "It's not that we found a weak team. We are all aware of what Talanta can do on a brilliant day," Aussems said. "It is an afternoon where things worked well for us. All the departments functioned properly and there was a lot of teamwork. If we can carry this kind of performance into our next fixtures then we can place ourselves in a strategic position to contend for the title." Leopards went into the tie desperate for a win after playing out a goalless draw against leader Nzoia Sugar at Sudi Stadium on Sunday. Aussems said there was a great improvement in officiating compared to what he witnessed against the millers. "The referee made some reasonable calls today. We had a big problem when we faced Nzoia in Bungoma over the weekend. We have the potential to post good results as long as the match is officiated fairly." Talanta's Ken Kenyatta blamed congested fixtures for their huge loss, saying his lean squad had already been showing signs of fatigue early in the season. "The matches are coming close to each other and that is challenging for teams that didn't have enough resources to beef up their squads in the last transfer window," Kenyatta said. "All in all, we were a pale shadow of ourselves this afternoon. We conceded some easy goals and the results are there for everyone to see. We shall be working on our shortcomings when we regroup for training. This is now water under the bridge and we live to fight another day." Following Thursday's results, Leopards have moved up to fifth on the log, with 25 points, six adrift of leaders Nzoia. Talanta currently places 14th with a paltry 12 points after 14 matches. Posta Rangers played out a one-all draw against Wazito at Thika Stadium.