Detectives in Nairobi recovered two firearms and over 470 rounds of ammunition after arresting ten suspects believed to have defrauded two American citizens of $534,000 USD (Sh67.3 million). The ammunition is of 9mm and 5.56 mm calibre. In one of the latest high stakes fake gold scams in the capital, the detectives who were acting on intelligence leads arrested eight Kenyans, one Indian and a Greek national in two separate raids at Nairobi’s upmarket Kitusuru and Kilimani suburbs. The operation ran on Thursday and Friday in a row involving detectives from DCI headquarters. Seth Steve Okuthe, the Director NewSkys Global Cargo Movers and Brunoh Otieno Oliende alias Oyugi were the first to be arrested following a report made by Marjorie R. Grant, a US-based investor living in Los Angeles, California. His arrest led to the arrest of the second suspect Brunoh at his palatial home in Kitusuru, where heavy metallic boxes suspected to be used in storage of crucial exhibits were recovered. According to police, eight other suspects; Samuel Wathika Gathuru, Kaisarios Loamms (Greek citizen), Odhiambo Tobias Patrobas, Oketch Moses, Patrick Mugabe, Elisha Mbandi, Teddy Zamora and Siva Sakthi Veru (Indian citizen) were arrested in unmarked offices along Maalim Juma Road within Kilimani area. Waithaka was found in possession of a Sigsauer P229 pistol while his accomplice Okute was found in possession of a Baretta pistol loaded with 13 rounds of 9mm ammunition. A Gilboa riffle suspected to have been using the 5.56mm ammo was found missing during the raid. It is not clear if the weapons were illegally acquired. A thorough search was also conducted in the offices leading to the recovery of three laptops, suspected mineral stones coated in gold and silver colours, a Cheque book issued by a local bank, briefcase containing metal analyser tools, cash counting machines, rubber stamp inscribed Bukule Tereno Advocates Kinshasha and assorted metal rods. According to police, it is while the detectives were conducting the raid that they found the arrested Indian national, Siva Sakthi Veru, who had just jetted into the country. He was in the process of being defrauded over Sh25 million but was saved from the fraudulent deal. The suspects are currently in custody assisting detectives with investigations before being arraigned in court. Police have urged Embassies and High Commissions to advice their nationals coming in for business, Kenya does not hold any huge consignments of gold. "The gold scam has now reached alarming levels as unsuspecting foreign nationals are being swindled large amounts of money by fraudsters,” police said. According to the officers, Kenyans and foreign nationals must ensure that they conduct due diligence on the person(s) they intend to engage in the gold buying business. Dozens of foreigners have in the past been arrested in Kenya and deported for being engaged in the fake gold deals. Some of the Kenyans involved in the deals are also facing various charges.