Former Transport and Water Principal Secretary Joseph Njoroge paid an emotional tribute to his mother who was buried in Gatundu South, Kibere village on Friday. She died on February 1, at the age of 96. Eng Njoroge said it was because of his mother, Ruth Njeri Njoroge, that he and his siblings made major achievements in life. “You brought us up, offered counsel to every one of us, provided us with the best care, showed us the way to participate in spiritual affairs, motivated us to seek God’s way with sustained prayers, songs of praise and participation in church works,” Njoroge said. “We owe our success and all we have to your wisdom and upbringing.” Their mother urged them to pursue education as they never tired to work on tea and coffee plantations. He says with the help of generous sponsors, they went on to complete their high school (A Levels) at Alliance Boys and proceeded to the University of Nairobi where they graduated with first-class honours in Electrical & Electronic Engineering and Civil Engineering courses respectively. Njeri was actively involved in the community as she contributed her own resources and mobilised people to contribute or volunteer resources to build socio-economic infrastructure. She offered her plot for the construction of a public tea buying centre which facilitated the entry of electrical connectivity in the neighborhood She organised for seats and improvement of AIC Gachika Church with her children. She also helped orgnise a fundraiser to complete the construction of a branch of AIC Church within local proximity to her home, Theta AIC Church. The burial was attended by former First Lady Mama Ngina Kenyatta, former Energy CS Charles Keter, ex-Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua and immediate former Interior PS Karanja Kibicho. Former Kiambu governor James Nyoro and his deputy Joyce Ngugi and embattled Jubilee vice chairman David Murathe. George Muhoho read a heartfelt tribute from former  President Uhuru Muigai Kenyatta. Rtd Bishop Silas Yego of AIC Church presided over the burial.