Kenya has appealed to Uganda's President Yoweri Museveni to release nine Kenyan herders held in the country's prison over alleged murder. The appeal followed a joint high-level security meeting held in Moroto, Uganda on Monday between a Kenyan delegation and their Ugandan counterparts. "The leaders appeal to H.E the President of the Republic of Uganda to graciously exercise his prerogative power of mercy and grant pardon to the nine Turkana herders currently in Uganda prisons," heads of Delegations from both countries said in a joint statement. The Kenyans from Turkana county are held in Uganda on accusations of involvement in the killing of Ugandan nationals. The meeting was sanctioned by President Museveni and his Kenyan counterpart William Ruto for the leadership of the local communities in Karamoja and Turkana to engage with a view to finding a long-term solution to enhance security, peace and development in the region. Among those in the Kenyan delegation was former Turkana Governor State House Deputy Chief of Staff, Josphat Nanok. The people of Karamoja in Uganda and Turkana in Kenya are faced with numerous challenges along the border including insecurity attributed to the proliferation of small arms and light weapons. They have shared ancestral, cultural and historical ties and similar social economic livelihoods for decades which has enabled them to co-exist peacefully while sharing pasture, water, trade and other resources. These ties have however been fractured several following countless cross-border raids that have often times ended in fatalities on both sides over the years. "The Kenya Government have made a commitment to collaborate with the Uganda Government in carrying out thorough investigations on the killings of the Uganda nationals by suspected Kenyan herders and ensure criminals who were involved in the killing of the geologists are arrested and prosecuted," the mission said. The high-level security meeting also resolved that the Memorandum of Understanding between the two countries that were signed on September 12, 2019, be reviewed and aligned to emerging issues that affect both sides of the divide. "The Kenya Government will consider mechanisms to strengthen the military liaison office in Karamoja by extending the year of stay," they said. "To facilitate recovery and handover of stolen livestock, the sister governments should deploy adequate security forces on strategic points along the border points, taking into account specific raiding routes and known hide-outs for bandits," the team further stated. The two countries also said they will consider establishing communication channels and networks to enhance effective communication and coordination on rapid action and conflict.