Retired President Uhuru Kenyatta has waded in the Jubilee Party wrangles. Speaking on Saturday in Kisumu, Uhuru who is  Jubilee's leader affirmed that the party is fully in Azimio la Umoja coalition. "Ata kama hatuko siasa active, bado tuko kwa ile chama tulikuwa nayo na bado tunaendelea kuunga Azimio mkono.Hakuna mambo yamebadilika," he said. This translates to: "Even though I'm not in active politics, I'm still in the party and we are still part of and support Azimio coalition. Nothing has changed," he said. Uhuru further dared the Jubilee rebels who claimed that he should cease active in party politics. "I may be retired but I am not tired," he said. His sentiments were backed by Opposition leader Raila Odinga who affirmed that Jubilee Party's Secretary General Jeremiah Kioni has not been axed. He explained that there is no serious meeting that can be conveyed without the knowledge and presence of the party leader, thus Uhuru Kenyatta. "Others are shouting that they have removed Kioni as the SG. Kioni cannot be removed. There is no meeting that can be conveyed without the party leader," Raila added. The Jubilee party has been rocked with wrangles ever since a section of the members visited President William Ruto at State House. The first visit was last month while the second one which was last week saw 32 Jubilee members at State House. What followed next was a committee meeting at the Sarova Woodlands Hotel in Kisumu which was attended by EALA MP  Kanini Kega, Rachel Nyamai, Naomi Shaban and Joshua Kutuny among others. Following the meeting, the National Executive Executive Committee wrote to Kioni, suspending him from the position on claims of gross misconduct. He was replaced with Kanini Kega. Also suspended are Treasurer Kagwe Gichohi and vice chairman David Murathe. However, Kioni insisted that he is still the Jubilee secretary general despite the National Executive Committee suspending him. While speaking during the Azimio rally at Mlolongo in Machakos county, Kioni further disputed claims that Jubilee was on its way out of Azimio. "Hayo ni mambo ambayo si ya ukweli. Mimi niko hapa kama SG wa Jubilee. Jubilee itakuwa Azimio hadi mwisho. Uhuru Kenyatta atakuwa Azimio hadi mwisho," he said. (Those are lies. I'm here as the Jubilee SG. Jubilee is a member of Azimio till the end and so is former President Uhuru Kenyatta). Kioni said the Kenya Kwanza government was party to the scheme to kick him out of Jubilee alleging that the William Ruto-led regime was carrying out an agenda to sabotage Jubilee Party and Azimio. "Those who are at State House started a plan last year. A plan to make sure that the pasties in the opposition are sold out and split so there are no people who can talk on behalf of the public," he said. Kioni fired at the members of the party who visited State House terming them as sell-outs. "Jubilee is intact. Our party leader is Uhuru Kenyatta. We are committed to Azimio and we are never leaving our coalition," he said. 