Friendships are a vital part of human life. Friends form our support system and provide a soft landing for us. Friends are meant to share with us the good and bad times. But it is important to know if this person is your friend, acquaintance, colleague, or just someone you know. How you feel after an interaction with someone you consider a friend helps you know where to place them. Characteristics of a healthy friendship are universal, but the connection you feel with someone varies from person to person. Apart from our partners, our friends are a safe space for us. The depth of friendships varies for everybody. The different types of friendships include: Strangers These are people you do not know that you meet on the bus, in the hallway, And you say hi to. You might have general conversations with them about politics, the economy, and the weather among other things without revealing much. Depending on where you meet, they can advance to acquaintances. Acquaintances/ social friends In this category, you are yet to share personal information since you do not know each other well. This relationship might be based on work, gym workouts, or another mutual interest. You keep acquaintances for networking potential and reduced social anxiety. Intimate friends Here, trust is being built and you are getting to know each other. You seek advice from them, feel secure around them, and hold meaningful conversations with them. In addition to all these, you also have fun. Epitome of friends This level of friendship consists of people who nourish you, people who you trust and who trust you, Here, you can have fun, cry, laugh, joke, respect each other boundaries and you can be yourself. Having people in this category requires you to trust them and be sure the efforts and feelings are mutual. The friendship is also stable, judgment-free, and supportive. Self-intimacy This is the innermost circle, it includes you and yourself. This is where you develop your friendship with yourself and fill your cup before pouring it onto others. Staying in this circle can prevent others from getting so close to you.