A section of Kenya kwanza leaders on Saturday lashed out at the opposition’s sustained anti government rallies which they said were only meant to derail the country’s economy. Azimio la Umoja - One Kenya coalition leader Raila Odinga is set to address a public rallies in a sustained move to discredit the government. Speaking in Masalani town, Garissa, during the homecoming ceremony of EALA MP Falhada Iman, the leaders said the rallies that are being lead by Raila as an attempt by the opposition to blackmail the Kenya Kwanza administration into dancing to the opposition's tune. Led by Senate Majority leader and Gender CS Aisha Jumwa, they were however, quick to add that the Ruto led administration will not distracted into delivering to the people of kenya. “Our kenya kwanza government led by his excellency president William Ruto will remain focused. We  won't be swayed to serve the opposition  interest. We are telling them that they can continue with their rallies but they should remain peaceful otherwise the government will firmly deal with them,” he said. On her part the CS said that the government was right on course not only in ensuring it improves the lives of kenyans but also implementing its manifesto. On his part  Former Garissa governor Ali Korane thanked the president for rewarding all those who supported him throughout the campaign. Korane took issue with Raila’s move to lead anti government demonstrations saying that it was time he accepts that he was defeated. “we want to tell the Raila that he should stop this narrative that he is advancing that he won the election. He should just accept that he was defeated and try his luck in the next polls if he will be energetic enough,” he said. Korane who vied in last general election through the jubilee party used the opportunity to announce that he will soon be defecting to UDA. EALA MP Hassan Omar on his part warned Raila against the sustained attacks on the government  saying that he has always been one who never accepts elections results throughout his political career. He said that the kenya kwanza brigade will remain steadfast in defending the government and ensuring that kenyans are served and that economy grows. On her part, the EALA MP thanked all those who stood with her saying that without their support she could not have got where she is. “I stand here with a full heart, as I thank you people of Ijara for standing with me at all times. I am who I am because of you. Special thanks to his excellency the president and the entire kenya kwanza administration for their unwavering support for the development of our country,” she said. The EALA MP urged kenyans to support the Ruto lead administration deliver on its mandate saying that under his leadership, kenya has made significant progress in terms of economic group, social development and infrastructure implement. “The government has taken bold steps to ensure that citizens of kenya have access to quality health care, education and job opportunities .the establishment of universal health coverage and program has allowed for more kenyans to access medical care,” she said. Others present were DPP Noordin Haji, Khatib Mwashetani (former MP Msambweni), Umul Kheir Harun(ODM nominated MP), Anab Gure(former Garissa women representative)  and Marsabit women representative Naomi Waqo. Others were John Metho(Nyandarua senator) Millicent Omanga, Okenyori Essi, Gloria Oroba(nominated senators) and Ziporrah Kering(EALA). Ends… 