There are colours that when you wear you look dull, when you wear others you look radiant. This is because of your skin's undertone. It blends with specific colours. Knowing your skin's undertone helps you pick clothes that will look good on you. They also matter when choosing make up products. Your skin tone and undertone are two different entities. Your skin complexion is also different from the two, it is your overall appearance. A dry or oily face, red cheeks, or under-eye circles, form part of your skin complexion. Your skin tone is the surface skin color depending on the amount of melanin you have, it ranges from dark to light. Your skin tone is affected by genetics, and sun exposure but your undertone does not change. Your undertone is the colour beneath the surface. It’s like a shadow. Undertones can either be warm, cool, or neutral. You can test for undertone by looking at your veins, the gold/silver test, plain white t-shirt or paper, and exposure to sunlight. Kindly note as you do the test be open-minded and avoid preferences. Veins Test Check the colour of your veins. Look at them intentionally. If your veins appear blue, purple or pink, then you have a cool undertone. If your veins appear to be green or greenish then you have a warm undertone. When the colour of veins is bluish-greenish, or a mix of purple and green, or olive then you have a neutral undertone. Gold/Silver Test In this test, use silver and gold jewelry. Wear one at a time and determine which one compliments your skin better. In this instance, the jewellery that brings life to your skin is what we are opting for. If gold compliments your skin then you have a warm undertone, if silver suits White t-shirt or paper Test Hold a plain white shirt or paper up to your face in natural light exposure. Observe the colour on the plain white t-shirt or paper. When it is yellow, then you have a warm undertone. If it is pinkish or bluish then you have a cool undertone, if it is between the two then you are neutral. Exposure to sun Test If your skin gets burned easily when exposed to the sun then you have a cool undertone. If your skin becomes brown or darkened then you have a warm undertone. You have a neutral undertone if your skin burns and then turns brown. Now that you know your undertone, if you have a warm undertone then choose warm colours when shopping for clothes, if you have a cool undertone then choose cool colours for clothes. If your undertone is neutral, then a mix of both warm and cool colours is good. When choosing make up products avoid those that will make you look like a clown, darker or lighter than you are.