Prime Cabinet Secretary Musalia Mudavadi has asked Opposition leader Raila Odinga to stop misleading the public on not recognising President William Ruto. Mudavadi said Raila and his handshake brother are being dishonest regarding the legitimacy and reality that there is a government in Kenya headed by Ruto. "What is wrong with our brothers? Yesterday they would cheat the public that they do not recognise Dr William Ruto and his government. When it becomes morning, one of them (Raila) is proudly the African Union as High Representative for Infrastructure, sponsored by the Kenya Government headed by Ruto,” he said. “The other (Uhuru) is a regional peace envoy of the Kenya Government. What hypocrisy then is this for them to claim that they do not recognise a government they are benefitting from? This double life of hypocrisy must come to an end." Speaking on Thursday, Mudavadi said the current economic state is the making of the handshake, as he downplayed reports that Kenya Kwanza had started borrowing. He added that from all Cabinet meetings they have held, he does not remember any discussion or signature that has committed Kenya to any foreign debts. "We must get our facts right. It is not true that we are already borrowing from our development partners. Far from it. Our first budget will be ready in June 2023.  It is therefore totally wrong for anyone to claim that we are borrowing too much. We are still operating under the budget of the previous regime,” Mudavadi stated. "Why are sections of Azimio afraid of stating boldly that the people who were in power before we took over are the ones who destroyed our economy? Why are we being blamed for the mistakes of others?" he posed. The Prime CS noted that Kenya Kwanza is conscious of the job they have of fixing the economy. He said that a lot of misinformation is being peddled in public regarding the status of Kenya's economy with a view to diverting the attention of Kenyans from facts. "We are here because of the economic misadventures of the previous regime. Those people dug the huge hole we are in today," he said. His remarks come after Raila on Wednesday gave the Kenya Kwanza administration a 14-day ultimatum to lower the cost of living.