Residents of Marsabit have urged the government to give them money instead of relief food in a bid to cushion them against ravaging drought. The residents led by Qabale Tache said the food being distributed by the government is too little to sustain them and the money allocated for transportation is enough to feed hundreds of people. Qabale called upon both County and National governments to emulate the cash transfers strategy used by some Non-governmental organisations to reach families affected by famine. She thanked the county government for assisting the vulnerable people in the county and urged other well-wishers to compliment the county's efforts. Representative of persons living with disability Waqo Qumbi said they prefer cash instead of relief food. " We have been ravaged by drought that lasted for more than six seasons. The county government has done a lot to cushion us from the effects of drought. We need cash to reach many families." he said. Last week we received relief food from the county in the second distribution but we shared it with our neighbours and we are still hungry," he added. Jattani Huka, a resident, urged the government to move from relief food distribution to cash transfers to help them access other basic commodities of their needs. "Let government scrap the relief food distribution programme and give out cash that will enable us to budget our needs," said Jattani. "The government should introduce cash transfer methods. The cash we received from NGOs helped us acquire food and other items," he added. Community elder Katelo Boru said there is a need for the affected families to be given cash instead of spending a lot of money on relief food distribution. He said transporting relief food to the farthest areas like Illiret is costly and giving people cash is easy. While presiding over the relief food distribution to special groups in Saku, Deputy Governor Solomon Gubo Riwe said the county government has no problem implementing the cash transfers program once the county assembly members debate and pass a bill. He warned county officials involved in the distribution exercise against diverting relief food promising no person will die of hunger as the government put in place measures to meet the needs of those affected. He asked the village elders to be keen on the exercise and report immediately any attempts of relief diversion to underserving people who were not captured on the vulnerable persons' list. He appealed to well-wishers to donate food to supplement government efforts in a bid to meet the needs of the people faced with starvation. The deputy governor asked locals to share the little they received from the government with their neighbours, calling upon the residents to turn to God and pray for his mercy. He says marsabit county is facing one of its worst droughts in decades declaring that the county is in a state of humanitarian emergency. "The ongoing relief food distribution will target vulnerable households with a view to saving lives," he said. The food items distributed include 11,875 kilograms of rice and 950 litres of cooking oil targeting 950 special households in the Saku sub-county. Acting county commissioner David Saruni urged parents and guardians to be close to their children so that they can easily monitor their morals and academic development. He said a majority of parents don't have time for their children as they pay attention to their economic activities saying education is one of the most valuable tools a parent can give to their children. "We are keen on monitoring food distribution exercise. Any issues that will be reported related to the diversion of food will be dealt with accordingly," he said. He asked members of the public to be on the lookout and report any government officials found selling or stealing relief food. He also instructed local administrators to work closely with the elders to make sure only deserving people get relief food support. He condemned the recent theft of relief food in the Sololo sub-county where 117 bags of rice donated by the National government went missing. The stolen food was meant to cushion elders and the most vulnerable people against drought. Marsabit residents are predominantly pastoralists who depend on the rearing of cows, goats, sheep and camels but the prolonged dry period has depleted all pastures making them weak and dying in numbers.