Former Kajiado West MP Moses Sakuda has hit out at embattled Jubilee Secretary General Jeremiah Kioni for what he termed as running down the party. Sakuda, who unsuccessfully vied for the Kajiado Senate seat on the Jubilee ticket, said Kioni should be prepared for a mass exodus from the party in the coming weeks. The ex-MP, who said he is loyal to the wing that supports President William Ruto, said all those who have committed to work with Kenya Kwanza are 'just home'. “We are all going home, President Ruto was the brain behind the formation of the Jubilee party, when we say we support his leadership, we are simply saying we going home,” the politician said. According to the politician, there are so many politicians in Jubilee who have committed to supporting President Ruto's administration. “That party will definitely remain a shell because Kioni has just personalised it into a personal kiosk where no leadership meetings are held,” Sakuda told the Star. The MP said he lost the last elections because he stuck with retired President Uhuru Kenyatta and not that he lacked the political gravitas to win the polls. “I am one of the many aspirants who lost the elections because we decided to sacrifice for the former president yet, the party that we build no longer listens to anyone,” Sakuda said. The former lawmaker said he will work closely with former Kieni MP Kanini Kega and nominated MP Sabina Chege to ensure that leaders who lost in the last polls because of Jubilee 'return home'. “They will come home because UDA is Jubilee, President Ruto was the brain behind Jubilee when URP and TNA collapsed, so we are returning home as prodigal sons,” he said. He claimed that Kioni had mismanaged the party and even expunged his name from the Party's EALA nominees in his favour. While Jubilee had agreed and submitted to Parliament a list with Sakuda's and Kega's names, the name of the former Kajiado West MP was missing after a parallel list was tabled 24 hours later. The former MP was the first ever MP on the TNA ticket in 2012 after a by-election following the death of the then Kajiado North MP George Saitoti. Kioni is fighting ouster as the Jubilee party boss and has called a National Delegates Convention next month and which the Kega-led team termed as illegal.