Decision-making and defense will be key focus for Menengai Oilers when they meet KCB in the top-of-the-table Kenya Cup clash in Nakuru on Saturday. The Kenya Cup finalists from last season have had a dip in form recently, losing to Strathmore Leos on Saturday 25-21 and a shock 17-16 loss to Blak Blad last month. The two defeats have seen them drop to third in the standings with 31 points. Head coach Gibson Weru said poor decision-making and defensive lapses saw them lose both games but added that these are areas the team needs to improve as the league enters the business end of the season. “Some of the decisions we have taken in both attack and defence have been poor and that has led to losing matches we should have won. Our defensive alignment has not been that sharp enough,” said  Weru. The former Kenya Sevens playmaker said the two losses are a blessing in disguise as they will sharpen them during the playoffs. "The two losses have shown our weaknesses and I would rather lose now than in the playoffs. As a team, we have work to do and I am sure we will get better," added Weru. When the two sides last met in the semifinal last season, Oilers stunned KCB 24-17 though the tactician expects a different ball game this time around. “History counts for nothing. The win last year was great but now it's a different scenario and we must be ready for the challenge,"  he added. Weru expects the game to be won in the forwards, especially in the setpiece. "Whoever dominates the scrum and line out will carry the day. This week, we have had an intensive session to ensure our set pieces are dominant," he noted. After the KCB clash, the Nakuru-based side will face Catholic Monks and Kabras Sugar. Weru expects more twists and turns in the next three games before the Kenya Cup semifinals. “ The next fortnight will be very interesting because the three top teams play each other. So some will drop points and others will win." KCB lead the table with 40 points and are closely followed by champions with 39. The oilers are third with 31 points. Quins and Blak Blad round up the top five with 24 and 23 points respectively.