Chief Opposition leader Raila Odinga fired back at Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua for his utterances that the government was going to prioritise development for its supporters. Speaking during a burial ceremony in Kitui on Tuesday, Raila accused the Gachagua of promoting discrimination. "The remarks were no joke just as it is evident in the Cabinet. In a group of 24 persons, the majority are from only two tribes.  The same goes for the Principal Secretaries, where there are over 10 persons from the same tribe," he said. Raila regretted that even though all Kenyans pay their taxes, there is no equality in sharing of jobs. "Every Kenyan pays the tax but when it comes to sharing and jobs, they (Kenya Kwanza administration) become discriminatory and this is not right," he said. Pushing for the anti-Ruto protests, Raila said the pronouncement was among the reasons the President should leave the State House. The Azimio team attended the burial of Azimio spokesperson Makau Mutua's elder brother Gabriel Wambua Mutua. Leaders accompanying Raila included Narc leader Martha Karua, former defence CS Eugene Wamalwa and Kitui Deputy Governor Augustine Kanani. DP Gachagua on Sunday said the Kenya Kwanza government will reward its staunch supporters and those who toiled to put the current government in office and give the least consideration to members of the opposition. Gachagua who was speaking in Kericho said it was laughable that some members of the opposition had started trooping to State House seeking government positions. He further said his role at State House is to ensure regions that backed them get development before those that did not. "This government is a shares company. It has the owners who have majority shares, those with minority shares and those that don't have any shares," Gachagua said. "You invested in this company owned by William Ruto and Rigathi Gachagua you must harvest. You invested and your time to harvest is now... Even they (opposition) will harvest, but they have to wait for you to finish harvesting."