Kakamega Homeboyz’ first-choice goalkeeper, Godfrey Oputi, has announced his departure from the club. Oputi said in an exclusive interview on Tuesday that he needed time to resolve important personal matters, adding that the decision to cut ties with the club was mutual. “Before deciding, I sat down to discuss the situation with the management and we all agreed to part ways in an amicable way. The decision was purely mutual,” Oputi said. Oputi, who still had five months left on his contract, denied rumors that he had left  because of a tense relationship with the club’s management. “Contrary to widespread rumours, the coaching staff changes that have recently taken place have absolutely nothing to do with my decision. The new coach, who had previously worked for the team as Nicholas Muyoti’s assistant, and I got along well,” Oputi said. He added that the sudden turn of events was unrelated to a decline in form. “I’ve had a fantastic season so far, earning a spot in the first team for at least 10 of the 15 games we’ve played so far. If I had given a mediocre or sub-par performance, I would have sat out on the bench,” said Oputi. “They expressed a desire to keep me on the squad during our conversation, but I had already made the decision to leave.” Oputi dismissed rumours that he had received a more enticing offer from a rival club. “I’m not leaving Homeboyz to join a different club. I’m not in a rush to find a new place and I don’t have any offers on the table. I want to take some time off to focus on a task I’m working on at home,” he said. He promised to return soon to pursue his life-long ambition. “I can’t stop playing football. My career is still too young for me to hang the boots. I intend to come back soon. In the upcoming weeks, I will reveal what I’ll be doing next,” he said. His departure comes just a few days after the club named Patrick Odhiambo as the new head coach to succeed John Baraza, who was axed following a run of disappointing KPL results. The agile goal-tender joined Homeboyz in 2019 from Vihiga United, solidifying his place in the team’s starting lineup. While announcing the changes to the technical bench, club chairman Cleophas Shimanyula also issued a warning to the players, telling them to improve or face termination. Homeboyz now have just two keepers at their disposal: Steve Otieno, a former player at Wazito and the defunct Western Stima, and 17-year-old Ibrahim Wanzala. Homeboyz are currently ninth on the KPL log with 22 points, 14 adrift of leaders Gor Mahia.