Champions National Cereals and Produce Board hammered General Service Unit 32-20 in a Kenya Handball Federation league encounter at Nyayo Stadium on Sunday. After both sides missed early sitters, NCPB, who have 32 points from 15 games, finally connected on a Timothy Kirimi goal before Eric Nyamwaya replied. Soon the unbeaten champions had got their groove and roared to 6-2 and 11-5 leads on fast breaks before settling for a 14-8 cushion at the break. After intermission, the millers kept hammering at the GSU rear guard, making it a 10-goal cushion at 19-9 which grew to was 27-14 midway through. With five minutes to play, it had ballooned to 31-16. Nicholas Okore bagged five goals while Robert Maraga, Wilson Mukui and John Wante put in four each. “This is our first game this year where our focus was to keep the ball. The other was to keep our defence out of trouble and we did well,” said Kirimi. “This game is behind us. We take the victory and focus on the coming games. We still have tough ones against Ulinzi and Black Mamba." GSU, who the previous day defeated Thika 30-26, had Christopher Mayende nailing six goals while Nyamwaya provided five. Blacka Mamba beat Kenyatta University 32-25 to maintain their top-four spot. They led 14-11at half time. Martin Nguli led the Kaloleni-based side with 10 goals while Morgan Juma also had 10. Bethwel Kiprop and Morgan Simiyu notched nine each for KU. Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology nipped Nairobi City County 25-24 as Lewis Maraga scored seven goals and Nahashon Cheruiyot six. Robin Musomi bagged six goals and Oliver Okoth tallied five for the losers, who took a 13-11 lead at the break. Technical University of Kenya dismissed Young City 26-20 as Brian Warengai made five goals and Allan Ombati four. The losers had six from Dickson Manyange. Spartan hit Young City 36-28 as Brian Mwinam scored 13 goals while Robert Vuyo and Anderson Kaskeu added six each. Buccaneers succumbed 37-35 to Desert Scorpions on the back of Leonard Chirchir and Wilson Gathimba’s seven goals apiece. In the ladies division, NCPB crushed Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology 36-13 after a 14-8 halftime lead. Lena Njeri tallied nine goals and Sarah Mabonga hit eight for NCPB. Lynette Baraza and Magdalene Muni scored four each for the students. Vekma Diana scored nine goals, Meldone Akoth seven while Lilian Kyanda and Lecta Buttah had four each as Daystar University hammered New Hope 36-13. Rising Star whipped Nairobi City County 44-28 as Zebida Atieno nailed 10 goals while Shillah Atsachi and Gau Lumbasu hit nine each for the winners.