Kenya's national football team, Harambee Stars will play two friendlies against Burundi in March, Football Kenya Federation CEO Barry Otieno has revealed. Otieno confirmed that the Swallows are expected in Nairobi to play the games scheduled for March 25 and 28. He described the return of Kenya to the international stage as a positive development. “Football is coming back from a very difficult period. We have missed big opportunities for both men and women. These friendlies are the first step in rebuilding the team and getting us ready for competitive international football.” Speaking separately, Harambee Stars head coach Engin Firat said the friendlies will help the team to polish up their act ahead of major continental assignments. “It is important to keep the team engaged, to keep working so that we are able to play at a good level when we return.” The Stars are expected in camp on March 17. In an earlier interview, FKF CEO Barry Otieno stated that Firat had begun the process of identifying his assistants. "Firat has requested that he brings an assistant coach. At the same time, we've given him permission to work with a local coach who will be able to understudy him," he explained. Otieno said the gaffer is free to choose assistants who suit his style best. “It has always been our practice to allow the head coach to pick the rest of his team and I believe Firat will unveil his assistants in due time,” Otieno said. The Turk has been tasked with honing Harambee Stars' talons in preparation for the Africa Cup of Nations finals in 2025. Firat has already signed a three-year contract with Harambee Stars, according to Otieno. He will be in charge of the national team's return to the international stage after a year away due to a FIFA ban imposed on the country due to government interference. Otieno also revealed that Firat will earn Sh54 million during his tenure as manager of the Stars. Otieno said that the FKF National Executive Committee met and decided to extend the tactician's contract. "Firat remains the coach of Harambee Stars. Our National Executive Committee agreed to the extension," Otieno said. Firat, 52, took over from Kenyan tactician Francis Kimanzi who resigned from the position in October 2020. The Stars are back on the international stage after being out in the cold for nearly a year due to a ban imposed by Fifa, the world football governing body, in February of last year. Fifa suspended the FKF, citing government interference after authorities shut it down last year over corruption allegations. However, Sports Cabinet Secretary Ababu Namwamba announced in November that the federation would be reinstated, but warned former president Nick Mwendwa, who is facing corruption charges, not to return to the KFK until the case was resolved. Namwamba told Nairobi, reporters, that he had met with Fifa officials in Qatar to discuss the suspension. "I'd like to express my delight at Kenya making a comeback (on the international football scene)," he said. A letter from Fifa said it had "decided on November 25, 2022, to lift the suspension of the FKF with immediate effect, following the local government's decision to reinstate FKF.