Valentine season is here and as February 14 nears, lovers can't keep it cool. So what happens to the singles or those who have, for one reason or another, decided they don't want to celebrate love? Flowers, chocolates, teddy bears and date nights may not be on your to-do list, but you don't have to spend the day in sorrow. Make it fun and empowering with this list! 1. Go to a cinema or binge-watch at your house alone The best thing about going on a solo-cinema trip is that you get to choose whatever you want to watch and the spot you feel like sitting at, with no compromise. Whether you choose Anga Sky cinema, Century Cinemax or Prestige Cinemas, be sure to lose yourself in the world of film. You can choose between Black Panther: Wakanda Forever, Puss in Boots: The Last Wish, M3gan, Avatar 2: The Way of Water, Plane, or A Man Called Otto. The above movies will be airing on different dates and times till February 15. 2. Try out something new What other good time is there to try out something new, or something you would not normally do than February? Depending on your budget, you can learn how to play chess, golf or bowling. You can also try out a new recipe or take up a new hobby in knitting, or you can read a book. 3.Book a staycation/prayer centre or go on a solo drive If your budget allows you to, book a hotel of your choice or take a solo spa trip. One can also choose to go to a prayer centre and pray for a partner if you are ready. You can also go hiking. Make this season a memory of when you rode solo and rode in style. 4. Go out with friends Round up those friends or colleagues who like you, are on an anti-Valentine mood and go out for drinks. To avoid spoiling the mood, make sure to choose a location without heart-filled shop windows and PDAs. 5. Throw a themed party Host an anti-Valentine-themed party for your friends, with themes ranging from country life to non-romantic movie-based themes. 6. Gifting You can get gifts for your family members or your single friend. Make someone smile, after all, it is February. Remember in whatever you choose to do, it's your day, love yourself first.