The ODM branch in Gem has called for the expulsion of MP Elisha Odhiambo from the party, citing his State House visit. This comes even as Kisumu officials warned rebels against attending a planned Azimio rally in the lakeside city on Saturday. The Gem MP becomes the second legislator from Siaya to face threats of expulsion after ODM Bondo branch also suspended MP Gideon Ochanda and relieved him of his duties as the branch secretary. If expelled from the party, the two risk losing their parliamentary seats. As calls for expulsion of alleged renegade ODM legislators gained momentum, the Gem ODM branch executive committee held a meeting at Sagam trading centre, where it resolved to kick out the legislator and some of his allies from the positions held at the branch. Addressing the press after the meeting, the branch chairman Nick Ochola said that the legislator and one of the branch executive committee members John Ogam Maramba have been working for the interest of ODM’s rivals and had campaigned against ODM candidates in the last general election. “During the August 8, 2022 general elections, they openly campaigned against the ODM nominee candidate for North Gem ward and instead supported the FPK candidate, causing ODM to lose,” the chairman said. Ochola said that the duo was at it again during the December 8 by-election in South Gem ward, where they openly campaigned against ODM nominee candidate Polycarp Wanga who lost to an independent candidate. The legislator was further accused of championing the interest and policies of rival parties by meeting the leadership of the United Democratic Alliance at State House, Nairobi, on February 7, thus violating ODM constitution. The party’s Siaya county coordinating committee chairman Oloo Okanda hailed the decision of the Gem branch, adding that the party must weed out people who are not loyal. “That is the direction that all branches must take to clean the party,” Okanda said. Meanwhile, the Kisumu county ODM leadership has cautioned rebel MPs and other leaders who have leaned towards Kenya Kwanza coalition against attending tomorrow’s Azimio rally in Kisumu. Kisumu ODM party chairman Paul Akeyo said the leaders who recently met President William Ruto against the party’s will were not welcome at the rally. “They have demonstrated that they do not subscribe to the party’s thinking and what our leader in Azimio Raila Odinga is agitating for. Therefore, there is no need for them to attend the rally,” he said. Measures, he added, have been put in place to ensure that the rally is conducted peacefully, cautioning those opposed to the coalition’s agenda against disrupting the proceedings. His sentiments come barely a week after Lang’ata MP Felix Odiwuor was ejected out of Azimio meeting in Machakos. Odiwuor and other MPs Ochanda (Bondo), Odhiambo (Gem), Mark Nyamita (Uriri), Caroli Omondi (Suba South), Shakeel Shabir (Kisumu East-Independent), Paul Abuor (Rongo), John Owino (Awendo) and Kisumu Senator Tom Ojienda were hosted by President Ruto on Tuesday,  February 7. The  Kisumu meeting brings together Azimio national leaders and will be the first to be addressed by Raila Odinga in his Luo Nyanza backyard after the last general election. Kisumu Deputy Governor Mathew Owili said preparations for the rally have been finalised. Owili asked all ODM supporters in the area to turn up in large numbers to listen to the Azimio leadership on the way forward after the hotly contested polls. The rally, he said, was a platform for the Azimio brigade to have dialogue and engage with the electorate as Kenyans grapple with the high cost of living and reduced political space among other challenges. “As the people of Kisumu, we identify with the aspirations of Azimio 100 per cent and are going to work with them to bring our country back on track,” he said. Kisumu Central MP Joshua Oron said arrangements have been made to facilitate party supporters from all the seven constituencies in Kisumu to grace the occasion. “I am in communication with my colleagues from the other constituencies and they have assured me that they will ensure that their constituents attend the rally tomorrow,” he said. Kisumu county assembly speaker Elisha Oraro said the venue of the meeting, Moi Stadium, has been prepared. He cautioned rebel party MPs and leaders against disrupting the meeting. “Those who will make their way here and are of contrary opinion, we are asking them to listen then they can go and organise their own meeting,” he said.