The Round of 15 matches goes down today with the enticing match-up between Kenyan Premier League titans Gor Mahia and Tusker at Moi Stadium, Kasarani, serving as the highlight. K’Ogalo are expected to move to the top of the table with a victory against the brewers. The historically successful Kenyan champions are now in second place on the leaderboard with 27 points— one behind Nzoia Sugar. Gor Mahia head coach Jonathan McKinistry has forecast a challenging game but believes his team is up to the challenge and will prevail. “We are up against a well-prepared team that is seeking to retain the championship it won the year before. Although neither side will have it easy, we definitely intend to win,” said McKinistry. The Scottish coach is certain that his team can get the most points possible from the crucial game, which has significance for both teams. “Our recent performances have been fairly strong, and the majority of the guys are in fantastic shape. I don’t understand why we should be uncertain about our ability to score as many goals as possible on Wednesday.” McKinistry will rely on the charm of talisman Benson Omalla, who has been terrorising the competition and scoring at will. “Omalla is in excellent shape and is the favourite to win the Golden Boot this year. He has contributed significantly to our outstanding performances. Against the brewers, we are counting on him to live up to the hype.” However, Tuskers’ head coach, Robert Matano while admitting that his players have let him down of late, cautioned their opponents against expecting a stroll in the park. “We have a history of upsetting the form book against big teams and it won’t be any different when we play Gor on Wednesday,” Matano said. However, the seasoned coach, affectionately known by his fans as “The Lion,” has criticised his players for giving up silly goals. “Due to our propensity to give up simple goals after careless mistakes, we have struggled, notably in defense. We have already sat down and had a lengthy conversation about it, though. As a result, I think we’ll be able to see some remarkable changes in our upcoming games.” The Brewers had a strong start to the season and took early control of the KPL standings, but they lost steam along the way and fell to fifth place on the log. Nairobi City Stars will challenge Kenya Police FC at Ruaraka Complex in one of the day’s other matches. Bandari will welcome Kakamega Homeboyz at the Mbaraki Sports Club in Mombasa, while Nzoia Sugar will play Kariobangi Sharks at Kasarani Annex in an effort to maintain their position atop the leaderboard. Vihiga and Mathare United will square off in the bottom-of-the-table match while at Ulinzi Complex, Ulinzi Stars and Bidco United are scheduled to meet. At Moi Stadium in Kasarani, Sofapaka and KCB will show off their strength.