Kibos Primary School for the blind is set to receive a makeover under a new deal by Jambojet and Crown Paints. The mixed boarding school located in Muhoroni, Kisumu county, is a governmentvsponsored institution founded in 1963 and is sponsored by the Salvation Army. Under the new partnership, the school will have some of its facilities renovated and paintwork done. Learners will also receive foodstuffs, learning resources as well as educational sponsorships that will enable them further their studies. The school supports 175 students who are completely blind and those with low vision. The school’s principal Caroline Templer said that Jambojet has supported the institution for quite some time and is hopeful that with Crown Paints coming on board, they will reach more blind children within the community. In 2020, Jambojet partnered with Kibos primary to support needy and differently abled children. "As part of our partnership, so far we have a Jambojet corner where we planted trees, we have also received braille papers that the learners use to write as well as goal balls which are special balls that are used by the blind to play,” Templer said. “We have also received three braille machines that cost Sh95,000 each as well as foodstuffs. As the principal of the school, I'm happy and I really wish we can get more partners on board to support these children,” the principal said. Jambojet CEO and MD Karanja Ndegwa said that they have started paying school fees for ten students in the school. He added that for each of the destinations they operate, they identify a school where they can support learners with education. “Our pilot community has played a big role in identifying these institutions. In Kisumu, we identified Kibos Primary School for the blind and we have been close since then,” Ndegwa said. He also said that as part of their union, they decided to partner with Crown Paints to bring a new look to the school. “We would like to say thank you to Crown Paints for coming through to support this project and we are hopeful that we will continue impacting more schools,” Ndegwa said. “If we can make the lives of our children better and bring smiles to their faces, that makes us happy,” he adde. The CEO said that the partnership will be a long-term to ensure that students get an education and plenty of resources and a colourful environment. He also said that their next step is to support 13 students who completed their primary education at Kibos but are yet to join high school. “We also plan on moving from just supporting one to supporting two or three schools in our destinations that we fly to,” Ndegwa said. Crown Paints PLC group CEO Rakesh Rao said that with good infrastructure and enough support, children are offered a chance to grow and learn. He also said that young learners are very intuitive and like colours that attract them. “I know that the blind have a sixth sense and with it, the children will feel the new, fresh colours that we will bring to their school,” Rao said. “They will feel the transformational energy that will be brought about by this new facelift. With colour comes creativity and we are willing to support in face-lifting many more schools.” Rao also said that they are happy and excited to be part of the journey where they get to change the lives of many learners. He also said that the calculated cost of the painting stands at Sh1 million but they are expecting to adapt to additional charges that may incur during the transformational process. “We have renovated schools where the budget was Sh200,000 and it rose to Sh2 million. This is because we strive to make sure we leave the school in a better condition and have attained our goal as well,” Rao said. “You might find a poorly constructed structure so we have to bring it down and construct it again with better materials. You may even find some buildings need new iron sheets.” Crown Paints has so far repainted over 100 schools throughout the country.