Nelly Cheboi, the 29-year-old Kenyan village girl who made headlines globally after she was named the 2022 CNN Hero of the Year, came from a family of "hopelessness, poverty and neglect". Cheboi is from a humble background in Baringo county. Her path to fame and recognition came after she started an initiative to empower young people through her organisation TechLit Africa, which creates computer labs for schoolchildren. TechLit Africa has provided thousands of students across rural Kenya with access to donated upcycled computers, helping them have a brighter future. She is also an ambassador of the European Business University of Luxembourg and a former student of the university. The aim of the university is to offer opportunities for education to people from vulnerable communities to help in transforming their lives, which is similar to what TechLit Africa is all about. Her organisation Techlit Africa is also having a partnership with the European Business University that offers scholarships to students globally, with most from Africa. The university, which has more than 13,000 students globally, voted overwhelmingly for Cheboi, and she admits they contributed to her victory. HUMBLE BACKGROUND Cheboi was raised up by a struggling mother, sleeping under leaking roofs in the remote Mogotio village, but she still managed to reach where she is today. She describes the award as a win for African mothers who struggle to bring up their children. She says the award goes to all women who sell by the roadside in makeshift shops locally called kibandas. Often, they lose their identity and are referred to as Mama Mboga (Vegetables Mum) or Mama Nani (Somebody's Mum). “The women on the roadside have been there working all their lives, working hard, they work so hard but life is still the same for them, there is no upward mobility, no skill for them and most of them, that’s all they know,” she said. In an interview, she said the award gives her hope and whenever she recalls how the whole event went, she finds it was not just her victory but for all African mothers. Cheboi said the mothers she recognises are those who know no other life but the roadside stands until they die in poverty. Her mum is one of those mothers who struggled on the roadside to bring her up, yet on the material day, she was on stage to receive the award and for the world to recognise her. “She represented many of those women on the roadside who do so much for the society but are not celebrated. Most of the people do not know their names but just call them ‘Mama Nani’,” she said. Cheboi has for long had the dream for the world to see her mother as she saw who she was: as a very hardworking woman trying to provide for her kids while being neglected by the society. She said her satisfaction in life is that finally, the world met her mother, which was miraculous to see the dream become a reality. THE JOURNEY Cheboi first went to the USA at the age of 19, not knowing anyone as she had come right from Mogotio village. She said for long, America was a foreign world where she just went to study, to work or collect computers, but nobody from home was seeing where she was or what she was doing in America. She couldn’t believe that all challenges she had growing up could end up with her in the global arena in the US. The CNN Heroes award winner said she grew up in a family of hopelessness, poverty and neglect. During their US visit, she said her mother was so excited to the extent that she only expressed herself in songs for the excitement whenever she asked her what she felt. Cheboi, the second-lastborn in a family of four girls, grew up with the aspiration that she did not want her mother to die in poverty. “I did not want my mum to live with the notion that all she knows is pain and frustrations, anger and poverty. So I was almost constantly fantasising like how much better would the world be for her?” she said. Her only wish was for her mother not to die before seeing it fulfilled as she did not know when it would happen. GROWING UP The CNN Heroes award winner said she grew up sleeping in a mabati shanty that was very old, with holes which a person could see through. She used to lay on a segment that had cement, looking up to holes of the mabati roofs on a sunny day as the rays of light gave her hope for a better future. On a rainy day, sleeping was not guaranteed as they had to move to all corners of the house. During the sunny days' meditation, she would dream of having a better house so her family could live well away from the agony and suffering caused by poverty. “I knew that education gave me a better chance of achieving my dreams. First of all, I wanted to do well in KCPE and get a scholarship so my mum would not have to worry about educating me and work so hard to pay my tuition,” she said. Cheboi used to study on a hospital veranda as her home was next to a health facility. The hospital had electricity and since they could not afford kerosene, she would go to the hospital veranda and study there until late at night. She also used to go to school with a lot of books to read anytime she had the chance. Her efforts earned her the top position in the district during the 2006 KCPE examination, and she was admitted to a national school, Mary Hill Girls School, which was four hours away from her Mogotio village. However, despite her excellent performance, she did not get a scholarship, so her mother was forced to struggle to enable her to study. While in high school, Cheboi struggled with tuition as her mum could not afford to pay school fees. This led her to be sent home quite often due to lack of school fees. THE TURNING POINT Despite all that, she managed still to get an A of 82 out of Mary Hill Girls School. She got a B+ in Kiswahili only. “I was the first one to get an A in Mogotio. So many people heard about it and one person knew about Zawadi Africa,” she said. Zawadi Africa is a programme that takes bright women from humble backgrounds and helps them to get scholarships in the US. Cheboi said the person referred her to Zawadi Africa and from there, she got a scholarship to go and study in America. In America, while studying, she got one job of cleaning toilets on weekends. The award winner said she saved all the money she got from her casual job and in one year, she managed to move her family from her childhood shanty to a rental apartment with electricity, latrine outside and a water tank. “We had excelled! We even had DStv! People began coming to watch TV at our home. That was definitely a milestone,” she said. Apart from moving to a better house, her mother also retired from the roadside stand. After the achievement for the family, Cheboi was not done yet. She started thinking about her community. To her, even as she thought of transforming her mother’s life, she wanted to also empower people to move out of the poverty they were living in for the betterment of her village. The only way she could support them was through education as that’s what had helped her transform her family. “I thought that the best thing I could do is have a school and the school is going to teach people creative ways of making money, instead of just focusing on the best people doing well in KCPE and then the rest are left to make it really rough for them to survive,” she said. In 2015, Cheboi built a school and named it Zawadi after Zawadi Africa, which was officially launched in 2016. She said in the first year, they had about 100 students. But today the school is so big, it is a four-floor building. At the time of building the school is when Cheboi discovered computer science, and she realised there was an easy way to empower people without so much investment. “With technology, you just teach them how to make money, and that’s how TechLit was born,” she said. The school, which is within the community, is running well, with more than 300 children. It has a hair school where women learn how to make hair, a dance studio and a music studio. “If you are a dancer, you have a place to go. Even if you fail in maths but you can dance well, then you will have a place where you will find your talents are appreciated and can show off,” she said, adding that it is the case with the other talents, too. TECHNOLOGY Cheboi learnt there were so many computers in America which are phased out after three to five years. Instead of them going to waste, she thought it would be vital if they could be used to assist her people back in Kenya in learning how to make money through technology. That she said is how she met Tyler, her cofounder and partner, whom she is dating, too. “It started very simply. We just started bringing in computers into the school and then taught a few people how to use a computer. And then we realised that we could actually take computers into other schools,” she said. They embarked on that mission to take computers to schools, where they get a room and train youth in that community to teach the children those skills. Currently one of their children is building a website. So far, they are in 15 schools; 12 in Nakuru and Baringo counties and three in Mombasa. Right now, with the award, their mission is to reach 100 schools. Normally, she said, they partner with schools in a way that they bring the computers into Kenya and pay for shipping costs from the US, which is expensive, but they manage. Once the computers are in the school, they ask the parents and the community to contribute and pay for the teacher. “When they contribute to pay for the programme, the teacher, transportation costs and the running costs, the programme can run sustainably forever,” she said. To run the programme in one school costs them Sh40,000 a month, so if a school has 400 children, they contribute only Sh100 per child a month per parent. Cheboi said the biggest challenge they have is not the computers but finding schools in the community that value the programme enough and are willing to pay for the programme. Indeed, her life is an inspiration that poverty indeed can end and one can rise from a nobody to a champion of the world.