Freedom is coming, remain steadfast and firm, Azimio Leader Raila Odinga has said even as he criticised the Kenya Kwanza Administration for failing to address pertinent issues affecting Kenyans. Speaking in Luanda on Saturday, Raila said that they are going to get their victory back. "They took our 'cow' and ran with it. We are going to get our cow back, how many want us to get our cow back?" He poised even as locals applauded. The opposition chief said some of the promises that the administration made to Kenyans that they will reduce prices of basic commodities including the cost of living were false because instead everything has skyrocketed. Raila added that the Kenya Kwanza administration did not have any intention of building the country's economy but majored on, on propaganda with no plans. "Taxes have increased everywhere. They were claiming that former President Uhuru Kenyatta was the one bringing problems but he's gone and they have done nothing, no change," he said. Raila added that the current administration didn't have any plans for Kenyans and instead lied to the people. "When we talked about the Sh 6,000, we knew where we would get that money from," he said. The former Prime Minister also took issue with ODM legislators who visited State House with claims of lobbying for developments. "There is no development in State House. Those going are going for their stomach," he said. Raila assured Kenyans that they will continue to stand with them to ensure that they get all that is deserved. Former President Uhuru however said that they want peace and calmness in the country and all the things affecting Kenyans are addressed. He also reaffirmed his support for Raila saying he has stood with him before and will continue to do that. "I believe that he is a trustworthy and truthful person who has the country at heart, wants peace and to bring the people together, " Uhuru said. Uhuru further said that it's his democratic right to support who he wants to because he's not vying for any position. However former CS Eugene Wamalwa claimed that instead of the current administration addressing the issue affecting Kenyans, they were busy buying legislators. "They promised to change everything including the high cost of living but nothing has been done, instead of money going to the picket of hustlers, it's being used to buy Mps," he claimed.