Days after unveiling Bigin CRM platform for small businesses, Zoho Corporation has launched their unified communications platform, Trident. This is its first native desktop app on Zoho Workplace which unifies mail, messages, audio/visual calls, calendar, and tasks, all in one place. Zoho Trident is among the company’s collaboration technologies that are aimed at offering businesses easier ways to communicate across channels. It is also aimed at reducing tool ambiguity and improving an organisation’s overall digital adoption. The Zoho Workplace is a unified office platform that combines collaboration, productivity, and communications tools. Zoho Kenya country head Veerakumar Natarajan said that in the past year, Zoho Workplace adoption has accelerated as businesses of all sizes transition to hybrid digital work. “With a clear focus on continued innovation, the goal of the Workplace is to enable businesses to unify their work to a point where the line between apps disappears,” Natarajan said. “It is heartening to see so many new businesses join the Zoho family while using Workplace as their customisable center of gravity.” According to the company, Zoho Workplace has witnessed a growth of 30 per cent with a rapidly expanding global user base of over 16 million users. It has also seen a 32 per cent customer growth with industries such as IT, insurance, non-IT professional, retail, and real estate spearheading the trend. Natarajan added that this was strongly attributed to increasing business demand for simplified, streamlined solutions that maintain privacy as well as rising costs from other collaboration platform providers. Constellation Research VP and Principle Analyst Dion Hinchcliffe said that the new Zoho Workplace announcements show a deep commitment to creating choice in the digital productivity sector with a broad integrated suite that continues to innovate. "Zoho Workplace with its newest applications; Trident and Webinar within Zoho Meetings and Phone systems within Zoho Cliq is helping users do their job more efficiently and effectively," Hinchcliffe said. However, Zoho is determined to continue enhancing its workplace products with features aimed at improving collaboration, productivity, and communication. As part of the advancements, Zoho Voice is now fully integrated within Zoho Cliq and Meeting. This allows employees to make direct line calls, send messages and pick up inbound calls across the apps. Zoho has also introduced BluePencil, an AI-based grammar tool with a text editor that can be used on any third-party web page. Zoho Meeting now also has an in-built Webinar functionality that enables users to broadcast, engage with polls and Q&As and present virtually without sharing their screen. Zoho Workplace has a new drag-and-drop feature that aims to save time by letting users move files between products simply by dragging and dropping. The company has also added mobile device management capabilities and OTP-restricted emails to its Workplace suite. TrueSync has also been added to Zoho Workdrive with the intent of removing hard drive storage limits and allowing users to make changes to their files locally and in the cloud.