Navigator Victor Okundi has heaped praise on rally youngster Jeremiah Wahome following their maiden victory in RSC Machakos Rally at the weekend. Driving the M-Sport Poland prepared Ford Fiesta Rally3 and navigated by Okundi, Wahome clocked one hour, 59 mins and 39.13 secs to beat McRae Kimathi (1:59:46.17 hrs) and Jasmeet Chana (02:03:34.13) to the podium dash. “Jeremiah is really talented in his ability to capture and interpret the route in detail during recce and he is quite a quick learner,” Okundi quipped. He added: “This has set the bar quite high for us this season. Our notes have really matured over time and that should definitely translate to better results and that’s what we are aiming for. The plan has always been a consistent progression.” Okundi got his first career first win 15 years after competing in various tiers of the Kenya National Rally Championship (KNRC) both as a driver and navigator. He explained that he only learned of Aakif Virani’s retirement in service. “As a co-driver, you never really see much in the sections as the eyes are strained in the notes and the trip meter. We all along knew  McRae would be ahead as we had lost a lot of time with the overheating problem.” He added: “Actually, our win was a pleasant surprise as our car overheated persistently from the second competitive section to the end. "When the car overheats, it goes into safe mode which reduces its power to a crawling pace. "In fact, at some point after the last control, the temperature warning persisted but we drove it to the next control 300 metres and then switched it off.” Okundi and Wahome started the first stage well and even managed a stage win on SS1. Their plan was to maintain a consistent pace but just 500m into the second section, they encountered temperature alarms and all they could do was manage the engine for the rest of the rally. "To be honest, we didn’t even want to see where we were placed in the rally as we had not driven competitively for more than 60 percent of the rally. We were crossing our fingers that the car would make it past the last control. We had more than six water bottles in my co-driver bag to top up after every control.”  KNRC STANDINGS AFTER RSC MACHAKOS RALLY RD-1 1. Jeremy Wahome 30 2. McRae Kimathi     27 3. Jasmeet Chana                       23 4. Yasin Nasser                           20 5. Eric Bengi                                17 6. Kush Patel                               15 7. Rashminder Bhabra              13 8. Daren Miranda     11 9. Rio Smith                                 9 One attachment • Scanned by Gmail