Blazers coach Jos Openda believe their 1-0 win against Strathmore Scorpions has instilled belief back in the team after relinquishing the national title to the students last season. Blazers, formerly Telkom, scored the only goal through Rhoda Kuira, who sounded the board in the 42nd minute to give the record league champions their first win in the African Club Championship on Tuesday at the City Park Stadium. The veteran tactician added that they want to win their remaining matches to realise their dream of winning Africa’s Premier Club competition. Before re-branding to Blazers, the team had won nine ACC titles, the last in 2019. “We lost two points against Lakers on Monday but this win is an indicator we are headed in the right direction. We missed some good chances and the scoreline is not a reflection of our dominance,” Openda said. “Losing a penalty is part of the game. We cannot keep lamenting but at least we are somewhere. There was talk that Blazers are done. We have put that debate to bed.” Terry Masibo could not beat Scorpions’ Ritah Atieno from the spot in the 37th minute. Blazers dictated the game from the start with  Tracy Karanja and Eleanor Chebet wasting glorious opportunities. Scorpions coach Meshack Senge reckons his charges were not up to speed. They lacked aggression, he added. “We lacked the mental fortitude to sustain Blazers. We know our mistakes and we will bounce back stronger. We didn’t play as planned but again, Blazers wanted it more,” said Senge. “There’s no reason to panic. We are only getting started. We weren’t aggressive and we showed laxity on and off the ball. Stage fright was expected being the first time for the players at such a stage but we take the defeat as a learning experience.” Elsewhere, Lakers were awarded a walkover against Nigeria’s Kada Queens while Butali Warriors threw away a 2-0 lead to draw 2-2 with Exchequers at the Dashmesh Hockey Stadium. Moses Ademba gave the millers a third-minute lead to make it two goals in a row, following his strike in the tournament opener against Western Jaguars . George Mutira doubled the lead 10 minutes later. A minute later, Exchequers’ Daniel Bempah made it 2-1 with a cool finish before Johnny Botsio completed the comeback in the 17th minute.