The 59th edition of the Munich Security Conference (MSC 2023) is taking place in Munich, Germany from February 17 to 19th. The three-day forum brings together global personalities in the peace and security ecosystem to take stock and discuss the major challenges currently and potentially facing humanity. Participants include international decision-makers and experts, including heads of state and government, ministers and diverse voices from international organizations, civil society, the private sector and the media. As part of his European tour, Director of the Office of the Central Commission for Foreign Affairs Wang Yi is set to address the MSC 2023 at the invitation of France, Italy, Hungary and Russia. The invitation speaks volumes about the relationship between China and many European countries. It also shows the fact that the 20-year-old comprehensive strategic partnership between China and the European Union is still strong amid the shocks and tensions encountered in recent times. Moreover, Experts see China’s invitation as an admission that the country is really a peacemaker that needs to be involved to help in combating global insecurity. The MSC is an annual forum dedicated to global, high-impact international security and strategic politics. In the face of change, disorder and geopolitical tensions in the world, Wang Yi is expected to present a Chinese proposal to the conference on promoting world peace and security. His speech will represent President Xi Jinping's vision of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security. Wang Yi will also explain China's enduring commitment to peaceful development, and China's position on major international issues. Wang Yi reiterated this commitment during a meeting with French President Emmanuel Macron on February 15 when he sought his counterpart’s participation in seeking a peaceful resolution to the ongoing Russia-Ukraine war. It is instructive that while France has also aided Ukraine militarily during the ongoing crisis, Macron has not closed the door for a bid to a peaceful settlement to the war. In fact, Macron has been on the receiving end of his counterparts both at the EU and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization for not condemning President Vladimir Putin hard enough. He is seen as one of the Western leaders who have kept lines of communication with the Kremlin open. Further, he has advocated for negotiations that will result in a win-win outcome for both of the warring parties, and not the U.S. isolationist policy against its geopolitical adversary. China has also been circumspect, not just in its stand on the Russia-Ukraine crisis, but in other crises that have bedeviled the world in recent times. Even in the current tensions on the Taiwan Straits, the country has not exhibited any belligerence amid extreme provocation the U.S. This is a remarkable stance taking into consideration that China has the might and wherewithal to engage its adversaries militarily in taking back its rightful territories. But this does not imply that China takes a hands-off approach to global security challenges. The country has contributed immensely to pace initiatives both at a bilateral and multilateral levels. In September 2020, the country marked 30 Years of actively contributing to UN peacekeeping operations, having sent over 40,000 peacekeepers to 25 peacekeeping missions. Another significance of China’s attendance of the MSC 2023 is the fact that it will be the ‘odd one’ out as the others are ideologically pro-Western. For rather obvious reasons, the MSC cancelled invitations for Russia, which has long been one of the participants. The forum organizers also uninvited Iran for what the organizers’ claimed was the government’s human rights abuse of its women. Some experts warned that exclusion of the two geopolitically incorrect countries - by the West’s standards - was bound to turn the conference into a “western echo chamber”. China is, of course, sufficiently representative of the other half of the world that does not subscribe to Western hegemony. China’s voice at the Munich conference is not only powerful, but neutral. Finally, the world is coming to appreciating China’s centuries-old tradition of peace. For many years, the country has actually been the victim of aggressive forces. Consequently, the Chinese had no choice but to fight back to reclaim their country from colonialists and other oppressors. As a major nation from the developing world, China stands at the center of world peace. Its veto balancing power at the UN Security Council is a safeguard against anarchy and oppression by some powerful countries whose policies are anachronistic to global peace and security. The creation of the Global Security Initiative by President Xi has cemented China’s credentials of peaceful development. The GSI is an ideology that the world can adopt to secure peace and prosperity for humanity. In essence it is, among other values, respecting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of other countries, abiding by the purposes and principles of the UN Charter, respecting the legitimate security concerns of all countries, and working together to address global challenges such as terrorism, climate change, cybersecurity and biosecurity. The writer is the Executive Director of South-South Dialogues and a PhD student in International Relations at USIU-Africa.