Former Garissa Governor Ali Korane has hit out Opposition leader  Raila Odinga describing him as a bad loser. Speaking on Saturday, Korane said that it was wrong for Odinga to feed Kenyans with what he described as ‘outright lies’. “So Raila wants us to believe that he defeated Ruto in his strongholds. unless he is talking about a different Marakwet which is not in this country and not the one that we know,” he said. Odinga while quoting research done by Vanguard Africa has insisted that he won the August 2022 elections with 8,170,355 votes representing 57.53% of the votes cast while Ruto mustered 5,915,973 votes that represent 41.66% of votes cast. However, Korane termed the figures as cooked which were far from the real numbers on the ground.  “We want to tell Raila that he should stop this narrative that he is advancing that he won the election. he should just accept that he was defeated and try his luck in the next polls if he will be energetic enough,” he said Korane further criticized Raila’s move to lead anti-government demonstrations saying that kenyans have since moved on with their lives and were no longer interested in politics. Going further, Korane thanked President  William Ruto for rewarding all those who supported him throughout the campaign. On her part, Gender and public service CS Aisha Jumwa said that those suffering during demonstrations and rallies were mostly women and children. Opposition Chief Raila has vowed to press on with his anti-government rallies even as pressure mounted on him to call them off. Azimio coalition has vowed that it is still intact and rubbished claims of division. The coalition also said it was even ready to go to the ballot. On Saturday Raila was in Kisumu county after attending late Education CS George Magoha's burial in Siaya. This time he was accompanied by retired President Uhuru Kenyatta who affirmed his support to Raila. The ODM  leader has been persistent in his anti-government rallies despite criticism from some leaders to stop on grounds that he is dividing the country. "We must continue to have these barazas to sensitise our people of their democratic right which has been stolen. These people know that they stole elections and they want to rule you as if they won elections," Raila said during an Azimio coalition retreat on Thursday. After the Busia rally on Sunday, Raila is set to hold another rally in Kisii town on Monday. “So I want to tell the opposing if they want a handshake, then they need to humble themselves and ask for it in a polite manner. but resorting to abuses, chest-thumping and issuing threats saying that they don’t recognize the president is a pure waste of time,” she said. Jumwa noted that Ruto was a strong politician who has stood the test of time even when things were difficult on his side.