The national government has commenced the construction of the Sh4.5 billion mega road project in Gichugu, Kirinyaga County. The 95-kilometre road project dubbed ‘the belt of Gichugu’ will snake through all five wards of the constituency in a bid to provide efficient transport to all Gichugu residents. Area MP  Gichimu Githinji said the project is being undertaken in two phases where the first phase covers 55 kilometres and the second phase 40 kilometres. From Piai, he noted that the road will cut across various areas amongst others Mbiri, Kiamutugu, Karumande, Kamugunda, Kavuti, Kimunye and Gatugura. The MP noted that 7 kilometres of road funded to the tune of Sh150 million have so far been constructed since December 2022. Under the current 2022/2023 financial year, he says Sh230 million is slated to be invested towards the continuity of the project from Kiamutugu to Mucagara. In line with President William Ruto’s directive on ongoing projects, Gichimu said that he will continue making follow-ups with the relevant ministry and house departmental committee for continuous funding of the project. “It is my wish that there will be consistency for this project because I don’t want it to stall. That is why I’m getting out of my way to ensure there is continuous funding from the relevant government department until the project is complete,” he said. Speaking on Monday from the project’s site, the MP said upon completion, the road will be a game changer in the lives of the locals. He said that it will among other benefits ease the transportation of people and goods from one place to another. He noted that with a huge number of locals being farmers, the road will come in handy in transporting to the market their farm products such as coffee, tea, milk and horticultural produce. Moreover, he said the essential project will open up the rural areas of the constituency for economic-related empowerment projects. He noted that the value of the lands in the area will equally appreciate thus attracting a lot of investors. The second-term MP lauded President William Ruto for his continuous pledge in supporting the mega project and other key road projects under implementation across the constituency. He further hailed the two contractors for their efficiency in undertaking the project with utmost competence and strict timelines. Magdaline Karaba, one of the locals, expressed joy over the construction of the road saying it will come with goodies for them. She says she plans to build rental houses and establish a general shop owing to ease of transportation. In addition, she noted that for a long time, its dilapidated state has had their motor vehicles stuck in the mud as pedestrians seek alternative routes to use. “For a long time, this road has been the source of our tears and has caused us a lot of inconveniences. We are grateful for its completion, we will reap more benefits and will also help us grow our businesses.” Another local resident, Patrick Ndambiri, thanked Gichimu for his persistence in following up on the project. Ndambiri whose home is also located along the 7 kilometre stretch that has already been done said the road has so far enabled his coffee farming venture to improve tremendously. He said unlike a couple of years back when he took close to two hours to transport his coffee berries from his farm to the factory owing to the muddy state of the road, it now takes him seven minutes to transport the produce. In addition, he said with the road, demand for land in the area has increased exponentially.