Over 300 families of Salama village, Airport Ward in Changamwe in Mombasa are still complaining of eviction threats. The residents now claim that some people were sent to warn them against addressing the media on the issue. The residents claimed that an individual, who introduced herself as an officer from the provincial administration, visited the area on February 9, cautioning them from discussing the land matter with the media. The parcel of land in contention measures 54 acres and is valued at Sh150 million. “The said officer came here to warn us against speaking to the media after the matter was highlighted in the press when they (media) visited the village the first time on February 6,” a resident said. “We are now living in fear not knowing what will come next after the said officer said that we will have to move out for shaming the local administration.” The resident said that for the last over 30 years that they have lived on the land, no one has ever come to lay claim on the land. He said they were surprised when a politician came to ask them to get a lawyer to defend them after filing a matter in court to forcibly evict them. The politician claims the land belonged to a deceased spouse. The residents now want the government to assure them of their security saying they fear being attacked bu hired goons and forcefully evicted from the land. On January 24, the said goons embarked on demolishing some houses and setting some ablaze before the villagers united and repulsed them. “We fail to understand why local administrators are colluding with the said politician to throw us out of the land. We call upon President William Ruto to intervene on this matter,” Gitonga said. The matter has affected school-going children as some lost their schooling materials when their families were almost pushed out of the land this year. “We are tired of being tormented by the politician, all we want is peace. We humbly appeal to the government to help us,” said another resident. When reached for comment, the said official denied asking the villagers to leave the land. She insisted that the visit to the area accompanied by local administrators was only to know why the residents were protesting, yet the matter is in court. “I will not respond to hearsays from villagers, but my visit was to ascertain what the protests were for yet the matter is in court. I don’t see the need for any protest, what I told them is that we wait for the court to conclude the matter,” the officer said. The matter is expected back in court on February 26.