Kisumu Senator Tom Ojienda wants the Senate committee on National Security, to investigate circumstances that led to the injury of 19-year-old Byron Ochieng' who was allegedly shot by Kenya Wildlife Service officers in Kisumu in December. Byron was shot in the arm in the Kanyakwar area on  December 26, 2022. Ojienda also wants the committee to state measures put in place to regulate the use of firearms by KWS officers in civilian areas in order to prevent misuse of firearms by them. He was speaking at the senate where he sought a statement from the standing committee on National Security, Defence and Foreign Relations regarding the misuse of firearms by KWS offices within the county. “The committee should inform the senate of any of the measures to compensate victims of misuse of excesses by KWS officers and other armed security agencies as well as preventive measures to avoid future occurrences of misuse of government firearms,” he stated This comes even as the family of Ochieng continue to seek justice for their son following the shooting. According to a report by the DCI on December 27, 2022, posted on their official Facebook page, he was shot while trying to rescue a suspected ivory smuggler from police officers. The report indicated that three suspects including two foreigners were arrested after a tip-off while in possession of eight pieces of elephant tusks weighing 16kg with a street value of more than Sh500,000. It said the fourth suspect, on a motorbike, who attempted to rescue the prisoners using a metal bar had himself to blame after the offices opened fire and shot him in his arms as he fled the scene. However, his family while speaking to the media last month disputed the police version saying the claims were not adding up. His mother, Mary Alango, said her son was unreasonably targeted when the officers raided the area to arrest the three suspects. She explained that Ochieng was rushed to Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital by residents after the incident and did not escape as alleged. “I received a call from, one of the people within the area where my son was shot,  so I rushed to the scene and found that he had been rushed to the people who witnessed the incident, so I rushed to the hospital and found him lying in bed writhing in pain," his other said. Alango said she has no funds to pay the medical bills and other hospital expenses and requested the government to step in and help them. She said his son's father died while he was still young and without any formal employment he lives with her. A human rights defender Erick Okello has already petitioned the Independent Police Oversight Authority (Ipoa) and the Independent Medico-Legal Unit (IMLU), copied to the regional commander, seeking further probe into the shooting. Okello noted that the family should get the justice they are seeking. “The report that Byron was shot trying to assist a suspect to escape  is not a true cause and the matter should be investigated to ensure that this boy and his family get justice." He called on the independent bodies to investigate the KWS officer on misuse of firearms and if found culpable then a judicial process should be instituted for justice to be served.