Coach Julius Kirwa expects Kenyan athletes to shine at the World Athletics Cross Country Championships Bathurst 23 on Saturday, February 18. The World Athletics on Friday released the final list of 453 elite runners from 48 teams who will grace the show including 24 Kenyan athletes. Kirwa stated that the star-studded Team Kenya list was chosen on merit, despite claims that some key members were absorbed without following the required process. For instance, concerns had been raised about the inclusion of Commonwealth Games 5000m champion Beatrice Chebet in the women's senior team. Chebet did not finish her race during the trials but posted impressive results on the World Cross-Country Tour. "We had to include some athletes who were not part of the top eight and they did better in training so they get the chance to form part of Team Kenya," Kirwa said. "We want to field the best team possible and that's what informed the changes," he added. "We are confident of a good performance in Bathurst and we have people who are capable of delivering the titles." Team Kenya has been based in Embu since January after qualifying for the global showpiece in December last year. During the trials, the top six finishers received an automatic spot, with the seventh and eighth-place finishers joining the team as reserves. Individual senior races have attracted over 230 athletes (134 men and 102 women). The Under 20 races will feature 81 men and 73 women, with fifteen teams competing in the mixed relay. The senior men's podium finishers from the previous edition in Aarhus in 2019 will face off again, with defending champion Joshua Cheptegei and fellow Ugandan Jacob Kiplimo facing off against two-time winner Geoffrey Kamworor. Letesenbet Gidey, the world 10,000m champion, and two-time U20 champion, will compete in the women's race for her first senior world cross-country title. A clash of the Titans is expected between Kenya's Beatrice Chebet and Eritrea's Rahel Daniel who have been formidable opponents in past events. World U20 champions Medina Eisa of Ethiopia, Faith Cherotich and Reynold Cheruiyot of Kenya will all feature in the U20 races. Medina Eisa of Ethiopia, Faith Cherotich and Reynold Cheruiyot of Kenya will all compete in the U20 races. Ethiopia will defend its mixed relay title, aided by the world and Olympic steeplechase finalist Getnet Wale. Steeplechase world record holder Beatrice Chepkoech is part of a strong Kenyan team, while Australia has a formidable quartet that includes Ollie Hoare, Stewart McSweyn, and Jess Hull. Hundreds of other runners will line up for the various mass-participation races held in conjunction with the championships in Bathurst. Team Kenya to World Cross Country Championships Senior men: Daniel Simiu, Geoffrey Kamworor, Kibiwott Kandie, Nicholas Kimeli, Emmanuel Kiprop, Sabastian Kimaru; Under-20 Men: Reynold Kipkorir, Daniel Kinyanjui, Dennis Kipkurui, Ishmael Kirui, Dennis Mutuku, Charles Rotich;  Senior Women: Beatrice Chebet, Emily Chebet, Cinthia Chepngeno, Edinah Jebitok, Grace Loibach Agnes Jebet; Under-20 Women: Diana Chepkemoi, Joyline Chepkemoi, Nancy Cherop, Diana Cherotich, Faith Cherotich, Pamela Kosgei.