Kakrao High School principal Otieno Oloo was on Wednesday elected the Nyanza region Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Association chairman. Oloo was elected unopposed during elections held at St Theresa’s Kibuye in Kisumu. Nyanza regional Quality Assurance and Standards Officer (QASO) Ebbie Kegode presided over the elections. Tom Odhiambo retained the secretary’s post while Sengera Manga secondary principal Tom Onsongo was elected treasurer during the polls which saw all officials elected unopposed. Ngala Mbuor is the new vice chairman and Paul Okello the vice treasurer. Geoffrey Nyantika retained the vice secretary’s post. The committee members elected were Gerald Onyango — the secretary Homa Bay, Milka Matiku — the assistant secretary Kisumu, Hesboniah Nyauma — the secretary Nyamira, Joy Grace from Siaya and Nancy Nyaenya from Kisii. Migori County secretary George Kichana is a co-opted member. Shortly after the elections, Odhiambo announced that Kisii School and Kisii University will host the regional Term One games while Maranda School and Nyamira Girls will stage Term Two championships. He prevailed upon teachers to adhere to rules and regulations governing school games. “We shall be very strict on the age rule. I also appeal to schools to ensure that registered teachers are in charge of teams,” added Odhiambo. At the same time, Odhiambo announced that more than 700 games teachers will gather at Kasagam Secondary in Kisumu for a coaching and officiating clinic from Thursday through Saturday. “Instructors from various federations will take the teachers through the changing trends and rules in various disciplines. We also want to have quality referees and coaches,” added Odhiambo. In the Western region, Martin Waswa was elected chairman during elections that were held at Kakamega High School. Others elected were Florence Mukangula (vice chairman), Andrew Onjoro (treasurer), Francis Silenje (vice treasurer), Quinto Omusungu (secretary) and Eric Ngichabe (vice secretary). The elected committee members are Mathews Murunga, Nelson Indumwa, Andrew Wafubwa and Livingstone Emedele. Annet Mugeni, Lazarus Omuleka, Hommer Mugalitsi and Margaret Kadenge are the co-opted as members. Chairmen, secretaries and treasurers from the eight regions will on February 27 meet in at Jogoo House in Nairobi to elect national officials.