Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong'o has downplayed the impact of the meeting between President William Ruto and nine ODM MPs at State House on Tuesday. If anything, Nyong'o said in a statement that the legislators' move will serve to strengthen the Orange Democratic Movement and its revolutionary vision. "I am not surprised that an amalgam of self-seeking MPs went to State House without the blessing of our progressive party, the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM)," Nyong'o said. "After all, in a revolutionary situation such as the one currently staring us in the face in Kenya, it is helpful for the ODM leadership to remember Lenin's warning. In a revolutionary situation, V.I. Lenin wrote: Better fewer but better." They leaders who met Ruto included Gideon Ochanda (Bondo), Elisha Odhiambo (Gem), Mark Nyamita (Uriri), Caroli Omondi (Suba South), Shakeel Shabir (Kisumu East, Independent) Felix Odiwuor alias Jalang’o (Lang’ata), Paul Abuor (Rongo), John Owino (Awendo) and Kisumu Senator Tom Ojienda. The meeting was seen as Ruto's latest scheme to weaken his old-time political nemesis Raila Odinga who is on a war path holding 'anti -Ruto resist'  rallies. ODM released a statement through director of communications Philip Etale and blasted the MPs saying they were being hoodwinked by the Kenya Kwanza administration to scuttle the Azimio anti-Ruto rallies. He said the MPs decision to move to the Ruto camp did not come as a surprise. "The party has been monitoring closely the behind-the-scenes activities involving some of them and today was just the climax," Etale said in a statement. ODM said that history will judge harshly leaders who betray Kenyans by accepting handouts to scuttle the quest for reforms. Raila has led three 'anti-Ruto rallies in Nairobi; at Kamukunji in Eastlands, Jacaranda grounds and Kamukunji in Kibra. His rallying call to his supporters is to denounce Ruto as a legitimate president and resist all punitive policies including unreasonable taxes. "Our stand remains that Ruto did not win the elections. He got into the State House by hijacking and subverting the will of the people. He must get out," Raila said during a Sunday rally in Kibra. Raila faulted the government for abandoning its promises of lessening the high cost of living, saying Kenyans had been rewarded with the most "I don't care" administration. "Instead of lifting people out of poverty, Ruto is pushing more into poverty," he said. In his statement, Etale called on Kenyans who yarn for a better Kenya to ignore leaders who have abandoned the fight for revolution. "We know that in the quest for legitimate leadership, there are those who will fall by the wayside and some will be compromised, but the movement remains unstoppable," he said.