Trail Blazers captain James Mutero is confident of improving on their maiden third position in the Kenyan Volleyball Federation (KVF) league last season. Mutero believes the team—a blend of youth and experience— have come of age despite losing two key players. The Ruaraka-based side face Administration Police, General Service Unit and Kenya Defense Forces in the second leg, starting Friday at Nyayo Stadium. "We have matured and we want to become a real force in volleyball. We finished third on our debut but we are ready to fight for the title." Mutero was speaking during the unveiling of the team's new season kit at Absa Sports Club, Nairobi on Monday. Blazers have lost Dominic Chelule (middle blocker) to rivals GSU while attacker Sialo Omondi is abroad on a professional stint. "It is going to be a make-or-break season. Putting on the badge at the African Club Champions later in the year will serve as motivation. This weekend we have to garner maximum points. We want to send a message to the rest of the teams that we mean business." At the same time, KVF vice chairman Charles Nyaberi has tipped Blazers to supply more players to the national team if their meteoric rise is any barometer. He, however, challenged them not to rest on their laurels. "The composition of the team looks good. Having players of different nationalities enhances the level of competition. It is high time this team thinks of having an academy to nurture young talent because they have the vision to make Kenyan volleyball great again." "Players are the greatest resource for any team and Blazers have got it all and need to make an impression at the Club Championship as well." Moses Mbuthia, Nairobi branch chairman, said Blazers' good work may not augur well with everybody saying: "You have earned enemies by doing well. You need to soldier on now that you have set standards." Assistant coach Benard Osule added: "Gong by our training, the players are physically and mentally ready for another grueling season." 