The Kiambu County Government has paid contractors who were working on construction projects in different hospitals, health CEC Kinuthia Maina has said. Maina said the payments followed an agreement that they should go back to their work so that they can finish the work they were doing. Some of the contractors were building laboratories, upgrading hospitals and other buildings in different hospitals, health centres and dispensaries within the county so as to improve service delivery. The CEC added that they have installed CCTV cameras in different health facilities in the county so as to monitor how patients were being handled. He spoke on Saturday during the opening of Avenue Healthcare clinic at Kikuyu Gardens in Kikuyu subcounty. Avenue Healthcare Hospital CEO Imran Osman said the clinic is their 15th clinic. “We now have 15 clinics and three hospitals within the country,” he said, that adding that their branches are in Nairobi, Westlands and Kisumu. Osman said that they opted to open the latest clinic at Kikuyu due to its growing populations. The CEO said the clinic is targeting to get patients from Kikuyu town and it's environs as well as other parts of the country even though the area hosts a number of private and public health facilities. “This area has so many people, it also lies along the Southern Bypass and the Nairobi Nakuru highway. We hope to offer services that will impact to the local community all residents,” he said. Osman said owing to the drought being experienced in the country, they have started a programme dubbed Safari Camps where they are meeting vulnerable families and patients and offering them with food stuffs, especially in the rural areas. He revealed that recently, they pitched tent at a village in Turkana where they donated food stuffs and water, urging well-wishers to also support the government in helping the needy. The hospital's manager Dr Catherine Makenzie said they follow the ministry of health guidelines and also offer services that are in line with it.