Azimio leader Raila Odinga has demanded the immediate release of Korogocho MCA Absalom Odhiambo. He claims the first term ward rep has been rearrested and is being held somewhere in Tigoni. Raila made the allegation on Sunday during the Azimio rally at Kamukunji grounds in Kibra. "Yule MCA wetu wa Korogocho Bwana Absalom ameshikwa na polisi wamemueka korokoroni huko. Nasema lazima awachiliwe kabla haijafika kesho," he said. (Our Korogocho MCA Mr Absalom has been arrested and is in police custody. I demand his release before tomorrow.) Commenting on the same, Embakasi East MP Babu Owino said the Kenya Kwanza administration has backtracked on its promise never to use police for arbitrary arrests. "As we speak, Korogocho MCA Matach is in Tigoni in a cell. The court released him unconditionally saying there are no charges on incitement, you have arrested him again and put him behind bars," Babu said. The youthful MP who on Saturday claimed that there were plans to arrest him dared the government to go ahead with the plan. "Do not threaten us. Even if you use the police or form a new Special Service Unit, we only fear God," he added. Odhiambo was released unconditionally from police custody on Wednesday, after having been arrested on Monday. The arrest came over an allegation of hate speech during an Azimio meeting at Chungwa House in January. During the ruling on his detention, the court however dismissed the application, directing Odhiambo's immediate release. Milimani principal magistrate Gilbert Shikwe ruled that the application filed, seeking a seven-day detention, was not based on any legal provision. "I have looked at the case presented in court. Looked at the High Court decision making section 96A of the penal code unconstitutional and I have noted that the decision has not been challenged by the prosecution," Shikwe said. "It is a nonchallenged fact that the applicant seeking orders to detain the suspect for seven days has no legal leg to stand and the only option is to dismiss." "He is hereby released unconditionally unless unlawfully held."