Bunyore Starlets football club have suspended their Chief Executive Officer/secretary Zakaria Amakhang'a for two weeks. In a letter to Football Kenya Federation Chief Executive Officer Barry Otieno dated January 24, 2023, the club statement reads: “This is to bring to your attention that Bunyore Starlets F.C have suspended the club secretary Zacharia Amakhang’a for gross misconduct." The letter, signed by club chairman Moses Mabwa, adds that the club executive committee, on their January 24th meeting, found reasonable grounds to suspend Amakhang'a for alleged sexual harassment, forging of players' documents and sharing of erroneous information about the club on social media. The club added: "Meanwhile, we have instructed the players who have been sexually molested to raise complaints with the relevant authorities and FKF for appropriate action." But while contacted via the phone, Amakhang'a said some of the accusations are true while others are not. “Yes some of the accusations made are true but others are not. All I want is to solve this issue in a sober way and let the girls play in a conducive environment,” Amakhang'a said. He observes that a lot has been said and he won’t engage in arguments. Instead, he said he wants to create room for peaceful operations within the club. However, club chairman Moses Mabwa said the accusations levelled against Amakhang'a are grave, considering that most of the girls are under his (Amakhang'a) custody. “We have been trying our best to solve this problem internally. We have talked to Zacharia several times but he's been rigid,” Mabwa said. “As an alternative we moved the girls to a new camp to cut off this problem but he (Amakhang'a) is currently chasing them on phone,” he added. Another official at the club, Michael Okwoko, said they must have a solution to the problem once and for all. “I am a padre and I have a name to protect and such things can’t happen under my watch and expect me to keep quiet,” Okwoko said. “Among these girls are orphans, single mothers and alongside some more others happen to be the breadwinners for their families and we should help them benefit from their talent without taking advantage of them,” he added.