Chief Officers in Kakamega County have been asked to ensure proper utilization and management of funds as per the Public Finance Management Act. They are also expected to do the same with all other public resources under their dockets and remain highly prudent and accountable for the same. This is according to Kakamega county governor Fernandes Barasa. Speaking when he opened an induction programme for Chief Officers on the Integrated Financial Management Information System-IFMIS, Management of Pending Bills and the Government Budgeting Process, Barasa said every penny and resource must diligently be accounted for. The governor called on the accounting officers to be accountable for their omissions and commissions during their service to the residents of Kakamega County. “They must be able to tell the public exactly how each and very coin and resource allocated under them has been used. The point is for them to be diligent and accountable," said Barasa. The governor explained that in addition to coordinating, formulating and implementing policies in their respective Units, the Officers will be expected to take up the responsibility for expenditure in their respective Departments. “This includes effectively responding to any queries from Members of the County Assembly and other Oversight bodies on how public funds are utilized. We must be objective in everything," he said. He warned that mismanagement of public funds and resources will not be taken kindly adding that every single effort must be put into making Kakamega County better for the benefit of the local mwananchi. Barasa also urged the officers to consult widely with their respective executive members-CECMs on policies and operations and to carefully administer the management of Human Resource functions in consultation with the County Public Service Board. The officers were also instructed to cascade performance contracts to officers in the lower cadres in order to enhance productivity and ensure effectiveness.