I was recently asked whether children can inherit their parents' property should the parents decide to end their marriage. I thought this is a question many ponder over, hence the need to address it. Property held by a married couple is called matrimonial property and is regulated by the Matrimonial Property Act. Matrimonial property could exist in two ways. The first, a couple jointly contributes money and acquires property together. A good example could be contributing money together to acquire land. The second way, one party to the marriage acquires the property on their own and the other party develops or improves the property. An example could be one party owns a home but the other improves it by making repairs and beautifying it. As a general rule, property acquired by a person before or during marriage, which the other party did not contribute to nor improve, does not constitute matrimonial property. As such, in case of a divorce, it will remain the property of the person who owns it. During divorce proceedings, once the marriage has been dissolved, what follows is division of matrimonial property. Where the parties to the dissolved marriage agree on how to share the property and such agreement is not under duress or threat, that will be upheld. Prenuptial agreements can also provide a roadmap on how matrimonial property should be shared, though many Kenyans never have them. Prenups are also not final and may be disregarded if the court thinks they are unfair to one party. In most cases, couples are usually engaged in serious tussles over property. In which case the court exercises its discretion in determining how property vests between the two parties to the dissolved marriage. Inheritance, on the other hand, takes place upon a person's death. The process of succession is regulated by the Law of Succession Act. When a parent dies, if they have a valid will, it will outline how the property vests upon the children if they were granted any property. In most cases in Kenya, people die without valid wills. In that case, intestate succession takes place. The intricacies of intestate succession vary from case to case, but often, property is shared equally among the surviving children. From the foregoing, children cannot inherit their parents' property during divorce. Division of matrimonial property and inheritance are separate issues and are under two different areas of law. Upon divorce, property is shared strictly between the two parties to the dissolved marriage. Third parties who were not in the marriage are not involved. On the other hand, property that is inherited by children devolves upon death of a parent. Succession involves a wider number of parties. Besides the children of the deceased, it may include a surviving spouse (if any) and any other beneficiaries. The different Acts regulating these two areas of law are available online. One who may be interested in looking further into the specifics of either process could find them and have a look.