Rosemary Achein’g has God and medics to thank for the role they played in ensuring that her child is cancer free. Speaking to the press on the sidelines of the launch of the Garissa Regional Cancer Center, Achein’g said that she noticed a tumor on her baby when she turned three. She said that it is at this point that she decided to relocate back to her home county in Kakamega since she was not aware that her she could get the services in Garissa where she had called home for years. But she then decided to visit the Garissa County Referral Hospital where an ultra sound was conducted but nothing was seen. She, however, said that a CT scan revealed that her young one had stomach cancer, scientifically known as nephroblastoma. "I brought my daughter here with a tumor in the stomach and after a series of CT scans and diagnostics, she was diagnosed with nephroblastoma. We went for chemotherapy sessions and other medications which have been helpful to my daughter," Achien’g said. Nephroblastoma is a rare kidney cancer that primarily affects children. It's the most common cancer of the kidneys in children. Achein’g said that this got her thinking of where she would get the money to start chemotherapy since tests alone had cost her Sh40,000. She said that her daughter was finally introduced to six circles of chemotherapy. All along, she was given drugs every week. "After the circle, I was told that the surgeon who deals with kids wasn’t there and I was advised to go to Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital (MTRH) in Eldoret where a surgery was conducted to my daughter after which she successfully healed,” she said. “The process was very expensive at first because I did not have the NHIF cover but at some point, I registered for the medical scheme which came through for me after three months,” she added. She said she returned to Garissa where her daughter continued with the remaining cycles of chemotherapy which she has since concluded. "Right now, I'm happy to report that my daughter who is now six is cancer free and she is just healing. She has even gone back to school. I'm a happy mother. There is light at the end of a very dark tunnel. I have God to thank for healing her,” she said. Achein’g said that residents have every reason to be happy now that the cancer center is now fully operational. "Devolving healthcare has brought such services closer home something that was unheard of when it was under the national government. This are the fruits of devolution," she said.