Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei has said it is time for ODM Leader Raila Odinga to 'tarmac' like any other Kenyan. Tarmacking is a phrase used in Kenya to mean a jobless person hunting for a job. Through a statement, Cherargei said Raila for the first time has accepted a decision, alleging that he was fired by African Union. "Tinga for the first time in his life has accepted a decision. Thank you AU for the firing of Tinga for his continuous undermining a legitimate govt of Kenya led by President William Ruto," he said. His statement came after Raila explained why he wanted to be out of the African Union High Representative for Infrastructure Development role in Africa. Raila said he expressed his desire to be allowed time to attend to other matters that need his attention. He asked to be relieved about three weeks ago. "During our meeting on the sidelines of the 2nd Dakar African Infrastructure Financing Summit in Dakar, Senegal about three weeks ago, I indicated the challenges to my continued availability for the role of AU High Representative for Infrastructure Development in Africa. "In that regard, I welcome your quick action that will free me to pursue other pressing and urgent matters," Raila said. Raila said they include inaction by the continent's leadership and vested interests outside of the continent that is only too keen to keep Africa in its present condition. "I am proud to have made a contribution to the transformation of the NEPAD Agency to the African Union Development Agency-NEPAD, among other contributions during my tenure." In a letter dated February 19,  African Union Commission president Moussa Faki announced the end of Raila's tenure as special envoy. Faki commended the ODM leader for accepting the role, adding that Raila's leadership has been key to leveraging infrastructure as a key priority in the continent. "The transformation of the NEPAD Agency to the African Union Development Agency has now been completed, with a full mandate to implement the Continental agenda on infrastructure," Faki said. "Your role in this journey, Excellency, has been invaluable. Allow me to express my profound gratitude for accepting to serve in this role during the transition period, which has now come to a happy conclusion." Raila was appointed the High Representative for Infrastructure Development in Africa role in October 2018.