I had lost hope in acquiring title deed to my parcel of land I bought with Kamuthi Housing Cooperative Society in 2010, says Sylvester Wasia. Wasia said it wasn't until January 28, 2023 when he was issued with the document for a plot he bought with the land buying and selling company that he got relieved and confirmed that the firm was genuine. “I have searched for this title deed since 2010, I had lost hope,” he said. Wasia spoke to reporters on Friday at Buffalo Hills Leisure & Golf village where his 50 by 100 plot is located. Buffalo Hills Leisure and Golf village in Thika, Kiambu county is one of the Kamuthi Housing Cooperative Society projects officiated by the then Minister for Cooperative Development and Marketing on September 8, 2012. “I had been saving for this parcel of land since I was employed as a young man,” Wasia said. He said he kept saving for the same property even after moving from his first employer to others. He later decided to buy another parcel elsewhere, built a home and settled in with his family after waiting for the Buffalo Hills plot’s title deed in vain. “I’m very happy. I wish to tell investors who bought land with the company that their title deeds are on the way coming hence should remain a little patient,” Wasia said. He said since he had settled with his family elsewhere, he will give the Buffalo Hills plot to one of his children. Rose Kuria said she was equally happy and excited after waiting for her title deed for around eight years. “I’m happy today because I have been issued with my title deed. I have been waiting for it for long,” Kuria said. She said she started paying for her parcel of land in 2015. “It has been a long wait, but today I have the document in my possession. I’m grateful because Kamuthi has proved to be legitimate, its leadership is honest,” Kuria said. “I can only praise God because it’s in my hands now,” Kuria said. The firm's CEO Harrison Morakaru said they on January 28 issued over 400 title deeds to their members and clients. “We have issued title deeds that we have been waiting for some time now.  The titles belong to plots located at Buffalo Hills, one of our major projects in Kiambu county,” he said. Morakaru said there were 5,600 plots at Buffalo Hills and about 3,500 title deeds had been issued to their owners. With the recently issued 400 titles, only 2, 000 title deeds were remaining for all those who had bought land with them at Buffalo City to hold the documents. Morakaru said the 400 title deeds were released to them from the Lands ministry after both the CS’s and PS’s lands interventions. “The PS was very instrumental in ensuring that these title deeds that have been lying in Lands registry since 2019, others 2018, were able to be released to us a fortnight ago. This is a good boost to our customers and members since they now have confidence to go ahead and borrow money to construct houses in their parcels of land,” Morakaru said. He thanked their customers for being patient as their title deeds were being processed by the government. Morakaru encouraged those who had acquired land with the company to develop them instead of letting their property lie idle. He said they were hopeful that they will be able to get the remaining title deeds within the next few months.