Residents of Kianyaga town and its environs are all smiles after the completion of tarmacking of access roads and improvement of the drainage system within the town. The project which was commissioned by Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru in July 2021 involved upgrading 4.6 kilometres of roads to bitumen standards. The project was a collaboration between the Kirinyaga county government and the national government through the Stormwater Drainage and Urban Development project. It is aimed at improving water drainage systems and offering sustainable stormwater management in various towns. Residents of Kamiigua village in Kabare ward who are part of the beneficiaries expressed joy over a newly tarmacked link road that connects Kianyaga-Kutus Road with Kutus-Samson Corner Road at Rukenya. “Previously, this road was so narrow. During the rainy seasons, taking our products to the market was a total nightmare. However, we are overly excited for this new road,” resident Benson Ngondi said. Speaking at Kianyaga town, some residents said that upgrading the roads would lead to improved livelihood. “When it rained, the elderly people, especially women could not make it to church since the road was so slippery. However, right now, everyone can comfortably access the church and other amenities,” she said. Lands, Physical Planning and Urban Planning executive Samuel Kanjobe said the project has completely changed the face of Kianyaga town. “This project will change the face of the fast-growing town and provide an inclusive, efficient and conducive business environment that will spur economic growth for the people,” Kanjobe said. The roads covered by the project include the Catholic dispensary link road-1.4km, Kianyaga government houses link road-1.2km, Kiburia Girls School junction to ICT Centre road-0.4km, Children Home link road-0.4km and Kamiigua–Rukenya road-1.2km. Waiguru said Kianyaga’s upgrade is one of the major transformative infrastructural development programs being undertaken in the county’s urban towns. Other towns that have been upgraded include Kerugoya, Kutus and Kagio where about 25,000 square meters of cabro pavements have already been laid creating more than 800 car parking slots and easy access to business premises. A similar upgrade program is currently going on in Wang’uru town where over 30kms of roads are being tarmacked while Kutus town is also earmarked for tarmacking of more streets. “The projects are part of an elaborate plan by the County Government to continually improve the municipality’s infrastructure as an enabler to socio-economic development and improved livelihoods for all the residents,” she said. Apart from tarmacking and installation of street lights, the county government has also been constructing modern markets in various towns to provide a conducive environment for traders. In the last five years, Waiguru’s administration has constructed 16 markets. They include Makutano, Wang’uru, Kagio Cereals, Kagio Clothes Market, Kutus, Kerugoya, Kianyaga, Kagumo, Kiamutugu, Sagana and Kibingoti.