Tana River County Governor Dr Dhadho Godhana was on 10th February 2023 awarded by the Chartered Institute of Peace and Governance (CIPG), Texas, United States Of America (USA). The event was hosted at Accra International Conference Center (AICCC) where leaders from all over the world attended. The main objective of the conference was to provide leaders with adequate knowledge to build capacity in using non-violent methods and tools to foster peace processes. The forum also gave leaders drawn worldwide an avenue to exchange research information with other people and professionals networking opportunities through the exchange of ideas and experience that will help promote peace research, training and capacity building in governance and diplomatic relations. The two-day summit that Governor Dhadho Godhana attended was organized by the United Nations International peace and governance council of Africa (UNIPGC), on the theme: “Peaceful Co-existence and Synergy for African Development”. Dr Ibrahim Awal, the minister of tourism, arts and culture, in his address urged African governments to harness the human and natural resources the continent is blessed with to promote socio-economic development. “Africa has so many resources but benefits a little, therefore, it’s time to seek the opinions of the traditional authorities, religious leaders and civil society organizations (CSOs) to ensure inclusive and sustainable development,” he said. Dr Awal, however, decried the insecurity and political upheavals in Sub- Saharan Africa that interferes with socio-economic progress and called on the government to tackle those challenges head-on to ensure peace and development. On his part, The Global President of the UNIPGC, Ambassador Dr Jonathan Ojadah, took the opportunity to induct the UNIPGC’s regional executives and envoys into the office to implement the various development projects. The United Nations International Peace and Governance Council is a global civil society organization established to accelerate peace, good governance and eradication of poverty across the world. The UNIPG also strengthen the government’s efforts to handle civil and ethnic conflicts and inter-state wars.