More Kenyans need to be made aware of Autism Spectrum Disorder. A consortium of rights groups in Kenya is encouraging more Kenyans to get familiar with the disorder. Badili Africa, Usikimye and Oxfam Kenya said that one in 68 children is affected by the Autism spectrum disorder. "It is also one of the fastest-growing developmental disorders among children," they said. They said that as more people are becoming aware of autism, there is still a lot of misinformation about the disorder. "This has made understanding someone with the disorder challenging," they said. They said that Autism Spectrum Disorder is a diverse group of conditions characterised by a degree of difficulty with social interaction and communication. "Other characteristics are atypical patterns of activities and behaviours such as difficulty with the transition from one activity to another, a focus on details and unusual reactions to sensations," they said. They said that the needs and abilities of people with autism may vary and evolve over time as some can live independently while others may need lifelong care and support. "Autism Spectrum Disorder has no single known cause, but genetics are part of the outcome" "However, researchers are currently exploring whether factors like viral infections, medications or complications during pregnancy or air pollutants also play a role," they said. Some symptoms children show of autism in their early infancy include reduced eye contact, lack of response to their name or indifference to their caregivers. "Other children may develop normally for the first few months or years in life and then suddenly become withdrawn or aggressive or lose language skills they've acquired," they said. The signs, they added, may be seen at the age of two. Some children with autism have difficulty learning, and some have signs of lower-than-normal intelligence. Others, they said, have normal to high intelligence, learning quickly but have trouble communicating, applying what they know in everyday life and adjusting to social situations. “When enough people care about autism, it helps everyone, even if only a fraction actively participate,” they said. They said they would continue to spread awareness of the different types of mental illnesses.