The Kakamega County Water and Sanitation Company-KACWASCO has called on MCAs in the region to support the implementation of new water tariffs. The introduction of revised water tariffs in the region a few weeks back has continued to attract immense public outcry with the public rejecting the changes which have been termed inconveniencing and unaffordable by many. The company is now reaching out to the assembly to in turn help the populace interpret and embrace the new changes. During a consultative meeting between the assembly’s Water and Finance Committee and the company officials on Thursday, the MCAs pledged to support the firm to meet its mandate of supplying clean and safe water and provision of sanitation services. Speaking after they were taken through the tariff development process and the reviewed tariff structure, the legislators said they will support the Company in creating awareness in the public about the tariff. They however lamented that the lack of information about the reviewed tariff had raised public outcry but they having understood the process and structure, will be on the forefront in sensitizing the public on the tariff. The finance committee chairperson Boniface Osanga said they would mobilize resources by pushing for additional budgetary allocation to the Company to improve on water and sewerage service provision in the County and also sensitize on the need to use clean and safe water. “We shall concentrate our efforts to help KACWASCO mobilize funds to enhance their operations," said Osanga. The Water committee chairperson Boaz Omukunda revealed that the assembly would call for a consultative meeting with stakeholders in the water sector to discuss ways of improving services in a bid to achieve the 'Amatsi Mumuliango' programme being spearheaded by the governor Fernandes Barasa. "I urge the Company to work with us as a team as we target to ensure residents get quality services. We have listened carefully what the Company has presented to us and we want to assure everybody that we will work together to help address the challenges facing the Company," said Omukunda.