President William Ruto jets back into the country today after a two-day official visit to Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Ruto has been in Addis for the 36th Ordinary Session of the African Union Heads of State and Government Summit. He left the country on February 17. A communication from Statehouse said the head of state was expected back in the country Sunday evening 6 pm following the conclusion of the conference. The conference brought together 55 member states among a host of other leaders. Top on the agenda during the summit were discussions aimed at fast-tracking Intra-Trade in Africa through the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) framework. Peace and security in the continent, climate change, food security and health were also featured in the talks. The member states also had an opportunity to elect a new AU council chairperson for 2023. President Azali Assoumani of the Union of Comoros was elected taking over from Macky Sall of Senegal. Both Kenya and Comoros had vied for the position but Ruto stepped down for Assoumani. Ruto also had engagements with various leaders including European Council president Charles Michael and Somali's Hassan Mohamud on the sidelines of the meeting. During his meeting with Mohamud, Ruto said Kenya will continue to support a stable and peaceful Somalia for the benefit of its people and the East Africa region. "A peaceful Somalia will provide a conducive atmosphere for increase in trade between the two nations," he stated. Kenyan troops are currently in the country as part of the peace mission. Ruto returns at a time the opposition team of Raila Odinga has continued to step up their campaigns against his administration. But, he has maintained that the planned demonstrations will not distract him in his course to deliver on his mandate. Azimio has announced it will hold a prayer rally Wednesday at Jevanjee gardens in Nairobi. "We are not going to allow them to alter our priorities, our priority is to deliver on our promises. it is our collective responsibility to work for the people of Kenya irrespective of whether you are in opposition or government," Ruto said.