Education CS Ezekiel Machogu has revealed plans to take back the powers to develop the TVET curriculum to the original body. Machogu while meeting principals of colleges said KICD should be left to deal with pre-primary, primary and secondary schools. "We are already in the process of allowing the mandated body to develop curriculum for our institutions," Machogu said. He added that the tutors will as well be transferred back to Teachers Service Commission from the Public Service Commission. The CS urged Form Four candidates to embrace the institutions saying they will get hands-on- skills. " Our institutions are in the process of being well equipped to take in more form four leavers to pursue different courses," he said. Previously there was a proposal to transfer functions from the Curriculum Development Assessment and Certification Council (CDACC) to the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development (KICD). If this was amended, the powers to develop curriculum in TVETS will be handed to KICD and KNEC. According to a report by the National Assembly Budget Committee dated May 2022, the proposal would face legal hurdles. The report signed by then MP Kanini Kega clarified that CDACC was established under an Act of Parliament which is still functional. “This proposal may face legal hurdles if it is implemented without amending TVET Act 2003,” the report reads. The lawmakers explained that KICD and KNEC should not be handed the curriculum powers before the law is amended. “That the functions of CDACC should not be transferred before the relevant law is amended to give it the full force of law,” the report reads. TVET Act 2003, states that the functions of the Council include undertaking design, developing curricula for TVETS and making rules concerning examinations. CDACC is also mandated to issue certificates, promote recognition of its qualifications in foreign systems and investigate cases involving exam indiscipline. The council consists of a chairman appointed by the CS, TVETs PS, TVET Authority Director-General of the Authority and six members appointed by the CS. The chairman of the council shall hold office for a period not exceeding three years but shall be eligible for reappointment. The members appointed by the CS shall hold office for three years and shall be eligible for reappointment. This proposal originates from parastatal reforms in 2014, where Kinyua wrote to the then Education CS Jacob Kaimenyi.