Over 700 needy students in Kisumu County have benefited from bursaries and full scholarships courtesy of Senator Prof. Tom Ojienda. A total amount of Sh8.4 million was issued. The Senator said this was part of his own contribution to support the education sector in the county despite the senate not receiving funds to support such. He noted that his office had received various applications and calls for help from various parents and guardians across the county which prompted him to get the funds from his own pocket to support the needy. Speaking while issuing cheques to the beneficiaries on Monday, the senator added that his office will continue to ensure that any deserving needy students in the county are supported to realize their dreams. "Education is important to our children who are the future generation and they will be able to support their parents and have a decent life in old age,"he said. He told the parents that he will continue to journey with them and in supporting the students, they Will also want to receive progress report of their performance in the various schools and also to know the level of needs they have every year to continue to source for other scholarship. "The senators office does not have any kitty however we strive to source from our own sources money to support the scholarship because we know that Education is important." Ojienda who has been on the receiving end after his visit to State House two weeks ago also took the opportunity to defended this saying it was part of his strategy to work with all government leaders and agencies to improve the livelihoods of the people of Kisumu. "Ours is not just a course for nothing but a course for development. We believe that politics should improve the lives of people including their welfare as an elected leader," he said adding that this includes better roads, access to healthcare , water among others. He said that his visit to the state house was strategic and he received an invitation to discuss the agreement on some of the projects to be undertaken in Kisumu and you will see the outputs. Ojienda further stated that he will continue to engage with various arms of government and leaders to ensure that people of Kisumu benefit. He also stated that he will continue with his oversight role at the senate and this will not be interfered with in any way. "I want to firmly state that am in the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party and will not shy from criticizing the Kenya Kwanza administration whenever it goes wrong." He added that come five years, he will be judged by the electorates based on his performance.