Kengen has switched to the sole use of geothermal, wind and solar power during the day to cut generation from hydro-dams where water levels have drastically dropped. While assuring the country of fully electricity supply, the energy generator admitted that the drought had adversely affected all its hydropower plants countrywide. This came as the European Investment Bank (EIB) promised to support the country in its plans to increase green energy and phase out thermal power. Kenya is going through one of its worst droughts in decades. It has swept through 30 counties leaving millions of residents and their livestock facing starvation. According to Kengen acting CEO Abraham Serem the moves is aimed at copping with the effects of the drought. He was however quick to assure the country of continuous power supply noting that geothermal and wind power would come in handy to address the deficit. “Our hydro-power plants have been forced to reduce their electricity generation due to the on-going drought but we have a backup plan to make sure there are no blackouts,” he said. Serem further added that Kenya Power is currently importing more than 200mw from Ethiopia, which will come in handy during the drought. “We are currently using geothermal, wind and solar power in the day and hydro at night as some of the measures to make sure we have enough electricity,” he said. Serem was addressing the press in Olkaria Naivasha after hosting a delegation from the European Investment Bank (EIB). He lauded the bank's role in supporting various projects in the geothermal rich area of Olkaria including the 86mw plant. “Currently 91 percent of our electricity production is green energy and with help from the European Investment Bank we can achieve 100 percent by 2030,” he said. EIB Vice-president Thomas Ostros said they are committed to supporting green energy projects in the country. He lauded Kengen's efforts and on-going programmes of exploring geothermal power and phasing out thermal electricity. “Globally, demand for energy is on the rise and the European Investment Bank is keen to support green hydrogen projects,” he said. Ostros said the bank had in the last four years spent more than 41 billion Euros to support green energy projects in Africa. “We recently signed an MOU with the Ministry of Energy that includes supporting renewable energy projects as part of addressing climate change,” he said.  