The eight ODM party members who visited President William Ruto on Tuesday have been told to resign from the party and seek a fresh mandate from the people. Leaders in Kisumu on Wednesday challenged the eight and said they had gone against the party's wishes. Led by Kisumu County Women Representative Ruth Odinga, they termed the move of the Mps including a Senator as blatant disloyalty. The leaders who met President Ruto included Gideon Ochanda (Bondo), Elisha Odhiambo (Gem), Mark Nyamita (Uriri), Caroli Omondi (Suba South), Shakeel Shabir (Kisumu East, Independent) Felix Odiwuor alias Jalang’o (Lang’ata), Paul Abuor (Rongo), John Owino (Awendo) and Kisumu Senator Tom Ojienda. Odinga noted that the MPs were hiding behind looking for development for the people of Nyanza while in a real sense they were pursuing their individual interests. She noted that the visit was shrouded in mystery and kept a secret until the team was at the State House. "Governors who hosted President Ruto during his Nyanza tour were not present during the State House visit. They were better placed to lead the delegation to follow up on the promised development for the region." She said the government had made it clear that they will be trimming allocation to the counties. Ruth further wondered why the legislators had gone to announce their alliance with the same government which is frustrating counties. "Counties rely on revenue allocation to the counties and trimming it will stifle development." She was speaking to the media in Kisumu on Wednesday. Kisumu County Assembly Chief Whip Seth Kanga also dared the eight legislators to resign from the party if they want to work with the current government. Kanga noted that their party leader Raila Odinga had made it known that they do not recognize the presidency of Ruto. "We are telling them to relinquish their positions as MPs and Senators so that they can come back to the people, we will see if they are popular,” he said. He further noted that the misconception that one must be on the government’s side to attract development is an old tool used in the past to dismantle the Opposition. “The structures are there and there is the Commission on Revenue allocation, so there is no need to go to the president. Each county will get its share regardless of which side you vote for,” he said. The sentiments were echoed by Kondele MCA Joachim Oketch who said the scheme is to get more MPs on the Kenya Kwanza side to be able to get numbers in Parliament to support the reduction of cash going to the counties. “Our Senator should stand firm in protecting the interests of our county, now visiting the State House for his selfish gain,” he said. However, the legislators who visited the State House defended themselves that they are only after development for their people. Ochanda while speaking to one of the local radio stations noted that they made a follow-up with President Ruto to see what his administration was doing in relation to the projects they talked about during his tour of the Nyanza region. Odiwuor alias Jalang'o however separately said the invited parties did not discuss politics but development projects in his constituency. "When the President was visiting my area for the first time for the affordable housing project, I called my party leader, and Baba told me, if it's anything development, go ahead, and be part of it," he said.