Champions Nairobi Water Queens return to action on Sunday when they play Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology (JKUAT) in a Kenya Handball Federation (KHF) league match at Nyayo National Stadium. This will be the league leaders' first game since they lifted the East and Central Africa Club Championships in Zanzibar in December. Nairobi Water coach Jack Ochieng's charges remain unbeaten having bagged a maximum of 28 points from 14 matches. They remain favourites to win both the game and the league title. Equally, Ochieng remains unperturbed about the Sharks' century of goals in two matches over the weekend. “Training has been alright. We will go into the game with full force as I have no injuries at all. I want to go into the match with the aim of testing and solidifying our tactics especially as we approach the second leg,” Said Ochieng. Third-placed National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB) who have 22 points from 13 matches will leapfrog Rangers (23) to the third spot with a win over lowly New Hope who have only managed two wins. The millers are joint third with the rampant Ulinzi Sharks who posted a 60-12 win over Rising Star and 55-12 over Daystar University in their two matches last week. Determined Nairobi City County meet JKUAT in the opener while in another match, winless Daystar University will revive their rivalry with Kenyatta University. The men’s matches on the card will see fifth-placed Strathmore University tackle number six Kenyatta University in what on paper looks like the main game on the card. Both teams have 20 points. “The boys understand what is at stake and must give a good account of themselves and approach the match with the seriousness it deserved,” said the students' coach adding, “It’s important that we win both matches.” Inspired play Spartan who are one position from the base as Boomerang confront Desert Scorpions in another match. The following day, Strathmore University return to play the Technical University of Kenya (TUK) and Scorpions meet Spartans. Boomerang confront bottom side Young City who have two points from one win while the ladies' fixtures will see Daystar University tackle Rising Star.