More than 6,000 students from Kigumo constituency have benefited from a Sh25 million bursary scheme. Students in day secondary schools will each get Sh4,000, while those in day and boarding secondary schools will receive Sh4,500 and those in boarding schools will get Sh5,000. MP Joseph Munyoro said the NG-CDF kitty factored in all parents who applied for bursaries as opposed to the normal situation where applicants are vetted. The NG-CDF kitty will offer full scholarships to 35 students admitted to boarding schools. They will be educated until they complete their secondary education, lifting a huge burden off their parents’ shoulders. Munyoro said the beneficiaries were keenly vetted and a team visited each of their homes to ensure they deserved to be enlisted. Each will be funded to the tune of Sh40,000 annually, he said. “Educating the 35 needy students will have a positive ripple effect in their homes and communities. They will be expected to educate other disadvantaged children in future,” Munyoro said. Eight other needy students benefited from Elimu Kenya Scholarship, eight from Wings to Fly, while Family Bank sponsored two. Speaking at Kigumo Social Hall while issuing the bursaries, the MP said the funds will ensure students are sustained in schools as opposed to other areas where parents only receive a portion of fees from bursaries. “Normally, students receive about Sh2,000 and their parents are forced to source for the rest of the money”. The MP said those who have joined Form 1 will also be expected to apply for bursaries starting February 14 and 15 after they have been admitted to their schools of choice. Mary Wangechi from Kahumbu said parents have breathed a sigh of relief as they will not be expected to give any more money to schools. “With unemployment and the raging drought, our families are on the verge of starvation and we need as much help as possible,” she said. Samuel Mwangi Mugo said his son left him in charge of two grandchildren after separating from his wife. “His wife left him and he disappeared to Nairobi. I have been trying to look for him in vain. One of his children is in Form 2 while one has joined Form 1. I have been struggling with health issues and I am unable to fully support them,” he said, lauding the MP for supporting them both.