A 21-year-old man was on Wednesday sentenced to 20 years behind bars  for defiling a primary school girl in Kabondo Kasipul constituency. Joseph Otieno Opiyo was found guilty of committing the offence to a 13-year-old girl before Oyugis Principal Magistrate Celesa Okore. Otieno is said to have defiled the girl inside a house within Kotuoya A in Kawuor location in the constituency. The incident occurred on May 15, 2022. He was faced with two charges; defilement and indecent touch. The court relied on evidence presented by five witnesses in the court who said the girl was known to the accused. The girl said she had known the man for one year and they had been engaging in sexual intercourse. Otieno was operating a boda boda business in the village when he met the girl. On the material day when Otieno was arrested, the girl had gone to visit him following his invitation. The court was told that Otieno forcefully got hold of the minor, removed her clothes and defiled her. During the incident, the girl resisted to engage in sexual advances from the man. “The girl confirmed she knew Otieno and had gone to his house where she was forced to engage in sex with him,” the court file read in part. Investigation reports revealed that the girl was indecently touched and engaged in sexual intercourse with Otieno. The father of the girl in the company of a police officer and a local administrator went to the house and arrested the man. The officer told the court that they arrested Otieno and took him to the Othoro police station. Area chief also recorded a similar statement. Part of the investigations involved a medical examination of the girl which proved that she was defiled as her genitals showed signs of penetration when she was examined by a medical officer. In her ruling, magistrate Okore said the evidence produced in the court proved that girl was defiled. The girl also admitted that the man had been engaging in sexual intercourse with her against the law. Okore said the man is guilty because he committed the offence intentionally. He lured the girl to his house before engaging her in sex. “The victim is a minor and she is prohibited by the law to give consent to such sexual activities. The man took advantage of her age and went ahead to violate her,” Okore ruled.