ThinkYoung together with Boeing has completed its  17th edition of the ThinkYoung Coding school in Nairobi. This was the first think tank boot camp that they held in Africa. The classes which were held over two weekends, January 28-29 and February 4-5, saw 60 teenagers receive introductory classes to coding. The ThinkYoung boot camp features an interactive curriculum that includes coding skills applicable to the aviation industry, robotics, and drones. Since 2016, ThinkYoung and Boeing have trained more than 1,300 teenagers in coding. The ThinkYoung Coding School aims to train youth in digital skills as well as encourage them to pursue a higher education path in STEM subjects. Speaking at the Nairobi Garage, Boeing Middle East, Turkey, and Africa president Kuljit Ghata-Aura said that software engineering has already become one of the most in-demand disciplines in aerospace. “In order to be competitive in the labour market, young talents need to develop 21st-century skills and this is why programmes such as the ThinkYoung Coding School are crucial,” he said. ThinkYoung and Boeing have also announced that, in addition to Kenya, they will be expanding to Rwanda and Ethiopia in spring this year. Throughout the year, more than 150 African teenagers, with 60 per cent being girls, are expected to benefit from free computer programming lessons through the ThinkYoung Coding School boot camps in Africa. This program seeks to ensure the next generation is equipped with skills to meet the global demand for skilled labour in the tech and aerospace industries. The project also aims to break the stereotype that STEM is not for women. One of their key goals is to promote gender equality by giving girls early computer science experiences. It intends to build a supportive environment capable of instilling conﬁdence and interest in future STEM careers among girls. ThinkYoung founder Andrea Gerosa said that with more young lives shifting to the digital space, the organisation is maintaining its commitment to equipping these young people with the STEM skills required to participate in and lead digital transformation. “We are delighted to partner for the seventh consecutive year with Boeing and conclude another successful edition in Kenya,” Gerosa said. “We believe 2023 will be a big year for our impact in Africa, and we are looking forward to going to Ethiopia and Rwanda to further scale our journey running coding programmes around the world.”