Kenyan travelers have a reason to smile after Interior CS Kithure Kindiki announced that they can now get new passports. In a statement detailing the ministry's progress in the past three months, Kindiki said they have addressed the delay in issuance of new passports. "The State Department for Citizen Services is in receipt of 50,000 34-page booklets with a further 200,000 expected next week and similar figure each month for the next six months," he said. The CS added that the broken passport printer, that had become a headache for Kenyans looking to acquire the e-passports, has been repaired. "Further, we are also in the process of acquiring a new printer," Kindiki added. CS Kindiki further said the processing of passports has been expedited to conform to international standards. He added that the ministry is targeting to triple the number of passport holders in the next five years. This, if successful, will see ten million Kenyans hold passports from the current 3.5 million. On the subject on the approval of citizenship applications, the CS said last week he approved 1,698 applications for between years 2018 to 2022. "Of these, 808 made to regain Kenyan citizenship mainly by the Kenya diaspora who had previously opted to renounce in order to enjoy citizenship of their host countries," he said. Kindiki explained that before the statute of the 2010 Constitution, Kenya did not allow dual citizenship. Approved applications for children and spouses of Kenyan citizens were 815 while 75 applications were made by lawful residents. The CS also signed 19 work permit appeals to allow the applicants to work in the country. "I have directed the Directorate of Immigration Services to ensure decisions on all applications for Citizenship, Permanent Residency and Work Permits are processed within 21 days from the date of application, including Appeals within seven days following receipt of recommendations of the Department," Kindiki added. The Ministry of Interior has further initiated the policy framework for efficient online registration for births and deaths. It has also begun the introduction of the Unique Personal Identifier, at birth, for all newborns. The UPIs will be a child's personal number in school and upon transiting to 18 years, in their national IDs, social security number, health insurance number and death certificate. Kindiki said the Ministry is working on introduction of the Third-Generation, smart, digital ID. Further, the CS said the Ministry is in the advanced stage of acquiring and installing an Advanced Passenger Information (API) system. It will be incorporated to the international immigration system to enable profiling of passengers in and out of the country. The system will be supplemented with installation of e-Gate at JKIA and Ports of Entry. They are aimed at improving security and reducing queues at the immigration counter desk. "Kenya and East African citizens will not be queueing for an immigration stamp unless for customs enforcement," CS Kindiki said. Finally, the Ministry is upgrading the security electronic surveillance equipment at the gates of the Ports of entry, aimed at detecting prohibited items.