Scientists in Kenya have developed a mobile app to help collect and analyse disease surveillance data in northern Kenya. The e-surveillance app was developed by the International Livestock Research Institute in collaboration with the directorates of veterinary services in Garissa, Isiolo, Marsabit, Turkana and Wajir counties. Tezira Lore, a food scientist and communication specialist at ILRI, said the smartphone app has greatly improved the collection and analysis of disease surveillance data in northern Kenya, where livestock keeping is a key source of income and livelihood. Lore said the LivHealth e-surveillance app has facilitated the recording of symptoms of livestock diseases by community disease reporters. “It has also enabled quick and accurate documentation of disease syndromes as well as confirmed disease outbreaks within the communities,"she said. "Syndromic disease surveillance involves identifying specific disease patterns and signs, or groups thereof, and analysing this information within the context of a specific environment and time period.,” she said. Previously, information on livestock disease outbreaks in these counties was mainly collected and passed on by word of mouth, a lengthy and often unreliable method of transmitting disease information to the veterinary authorities.” The scientist said the app is well suited for use in pastoral areas, with designated community disease reporters, many of whom are women, playing key roles in data collection. Lore said the community disease reporters use the app to capture and upload data on the disease symptoms, the sick animal and its location to an online server. “A field veterinarian then reviews the data, diagnoses the disease and is then able to target the appropriate response intervention. Such timely and accurate transmission of livestock disease data has led to a more efficient and data-informed approach to disease prevention and control,” she said. The Livestock Research Institute said counties have now shifted from indiscriminate mass treatment of livestock to a more targeted approach to early detection, reporting and control of livestock diseases. “The use of the app has also strengthened linkages among the pastoralists, veterinary officers, agro-veterinary drug vendors, abattoir workers and livestock sellers, "It has also expanded the sources of livestock disease data to include private actors such as agro-veterinary drug vendors, thereby increasing the scope of its use to women and the youth,” she said. Data from ILRI shows that annual cost of new human diseases transmitted from animals is about Sh851.7 billion. It further indicates that controlling zoonotic diseases, for example, through comprehensive vaccination, has good returns on investments and important zoonotic diseases have been controlled in high-income countries. “Control interventions should prioritise the pathogens in the animal hosts. Controlling and mitigating the risk of emerging infectious diseases requires increased investment in surveillance, diagnostics and vaccines and in research on transmission mechanisms and their mitigation,” ILRI data showed. (Edited by V. Graham)