Azimio leader Raila Odinga has said that President William Ruto should reinstate the four dissenting IEBC commissioners with their full benefits. Speaking on Tuesday during an interview on KTN, Raila said that the four commissioners were condemned even before their terms ended. "Those four commissioners must be reinstated with full benefits and then in a restructured Commission," he said. Raila said that the appointment of the next electoral commission must follow stakeholder negotiations and not a preserve of one side. Four commissioners led by ex-vice chair Juliana Cherera said they couldn't take ownership of the results because of the opaque natureof the final verification of the results. Cherera disowned the results alongside Justus Nyang'aya, Irene Masit and Francis Wanderi. Cherera, Nyang'aya and Wanderi resigned in the wake of their suspension and the formation of a tribunal to investigate their conduct in the August 9 General Election. The three resigned leaving Masit, who stood her ground that she was innocent of the allegations pressed against her. The Justice Aggrey Muchelule tribunal on Monday recommended her removal from office. In a report, Muchelule said the accusations against her and her fellow commissioners were proven. "Therefore, this tribunal recommends to Your Excellency, the President of the Republic of Kenya, pursuant to the mandate assigned vide Gazette Notice No. 14790 of December 2, 2022, and further in accordance and in compliance with Article 251 (1) and (6) that Commissioner Irene Cherop Masit be removed from office as a member of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission," the reports read in part. The National Assembly's Justice and Legal Affairs Committee said the four petitions that sought the removal of the four met the threshold for them to be kicked out of office. The petitions cited violations of the Constitution, gross misconduct and incompetence. The JLAC report also recommended the formation of the Muchelule tribunal, whose mandate was to probe the four's conduct in the August 9, polls.