President William Ruto has pledged Sh150 million towards the recently commissioned Kenya National Police DT Sacco Stadium. Speaking on Friday, Ruto said the funds will go towards supporting the activities within the stadium. "Ministry of Sports will provide 150 million to enhance the facility.." he said. Explaining why the funds will be given, Ruto said that the Stadium will not only be used by the police service but the community which surround sit. "This organization has transcended the police service. This facility will not only be used by police but will also service the South C community," he added. The President added that the Police in charge of the stadium should consult the Ababu Namwamba-led Ministry on the kind of enhancement needed for the stadium. "You should have a conversation with the ministry of sports and see best which facility will be added. I’m sure other than terraces, great facilities can be set up," Ruto said. The head of state presided over the commissioning of the Kenya National Police DT Sacco Stadium in South C, Nairobi. The opening of this stadium, according to Ruto, is a noble investment and also a serious statement of intent to empower many more young Kenyans who aspire to pursue various careers in sports at the highest level in and outside the country. The Kenya National Police DT Sacco was also celebrating its 50-year anniversary. Ruto said the Sacco is unique because it draws its membership from law enforcement officers throughout the country. Through injecting the discipline of uniformed services and private sector ethos into its entrepreneurial vision, the society has achieved impressive successes in delivering to its members. Since its registration 50 years ago, Sacco’s membership has grown from 690 officers to 70,731 as of February 3, 2023. "This is with an asset base of  Sh47 billion, a loan portfolio of Sh40 billion and total deposits of Sh28 billion, making it a significant factor in our economy and a leader among the biggest cooperative societies in the country," Ruto added. As a result, the President said that it was important to celebrate the tremendous milestone of  The Kenya National Police DT Sacco’s  50 years of existence have not been in vain.