More than 500 needy students in Kilifi have been sponsored to join Form 1. The scholarships were given by, among others, Mombasa Cement, New Life Ministries pastor Ezekiel Odero, Equity Bank’s Wings to Fly, Kenya Commercial Bank and Cooperative Bank. Kilifi Governor Gideon Mung’aro said at least 700 KCPE achievers had failed to join secondary school due to lack of fees. Mung’aro spoke on Saturday when four students, including twin girls, from Bandacho Primary School in Magarini received scholarships from Mombasa Cement. The company will pay fees for the four years in high school. They will also get shopping, transport to school and pocket money. Mung'aro said pastor Ezekiel had on Wednesday donated money to enable 103 students in the county to join secondary schools. “As a county, we want to make sure all children report to school. Apart from the county allocation, we are working with investors to ensure they get sponsors,” he said. Mombasa Cement general manager Imtiaz Sayani said besides paying fees for the students, they will also support their families to transform their lives. Sayani urged parents who are unable to raise school fees for their children to come out and ask for help instead of staying with them at home. Beneficiary Mary Gilbert thanked Mombasa Cement for paying her school fees. She dreams of becoming a doctor. “I got 363 marks in the KCPE exam but my parents did not have money to take me to secondary school. Yesterday my mother got a call from Mombasa Cement who said they will sponsor my secondary education,” she said. Prisca Kadzo, who scored 357 marks in KCPE exam said she was supposed to report to school last week but her parents did not have the money to pay fees. Kadzo was a pupil at Mdzongoleni Primary School and had secured a place at Bahari Girls. She also got a scholarship from Mombasa Cement. “I had lost hope of joining high school but now I'm happy because I will proceed with my studies,” she said. Kadzo Karisa, the mother of the twins, said she never thought her children would join Form 1 until she got a call from Mombasa Cement, who also gave them fare to Kilifi to get the sponsorship.