Church leaders and Kisumu Bunge la Wanainchi have strongly defended legislators who met President William Ruto at the State House over development projects on Tuesday. Kisumu county bunge la wanainchi chairman Joshua Owino and Roho Fweny church archbishop Nicholas Ochuka said the visit was in the interest of electorates and not personal gains as being politicized by some leaders. They said MPs were following up on the projects President Ruto had promised to implement in Nyanza during his recent visit to the region. Some Kisumu residents have also said that elections were over and it was time for elected leaders to deliver on campaign pledges. They defended the legislators saying there is nothing wrong with visiting the Statehouse as it is a public office. The ODM legislators who met Ruto and his deputy Rigathi Gachagua include Gideon Ochanda (Bondo), Elisha Odhiambo (Gem), Mark Nyamita (Uriri), Caroli Omondi (Suba South), Shakeel Shabir (Kisumu East), Felix Odiwuor alias Jalang’o (Lang’ata), Paul Abuor (Rongo) and Kisumu Senator Prof Tom Ojienda. Owino asked Luo communities to wake up from politics of intolerance and focus on how best they can lobby for development which would change the livelihood of the people. “We must shun division and constant wrangles. We are tired of violence all the time. Let’s respect elected leaders and treat them with decorum. We elected them to represent us and lobby for projects. That is what they went for,” he said. Owino said Raila had given elected leaders of the ODM party a go-ahead on matters developments hence the need to stop politics of hypocrisy. “Some of those quick to criticize the MPs were the first ones to meet President Ruto at the State House when Raila was having a rally in Kamukunji. Why are some leaders treated as saints?” he said. Owino every ODM party member has a key to discussing development for the gain of the electorates. "Every Kenyan is free to attend a meeting at the Statehouse with the president and should not be politicized or misinterpreted," he said. He told ODM party members to stop mixing issues of development with politics, especially when elected leaders visit the Statehouse to make a follow-up on development projects. “As elected leaders, we don’t care where you are going to get the money for projects. Even if it is Statehouse, go for it. Don’t come to us in 2027 that you did not fulfil your pledges,” Owino said. He added: “There is no way the legislators can initiate projects, especially those which require funding from the government that can improve the livelihood of Kenyans if they cannot work with the same government. That will be a big lie.” Owino questioned why Senator Ojienda was being crucified over the visit of the nine legislators terming it mere propaganda and witch-hunt. “Why is it that ODM governors who have been meeting Ruto are not being castigated or is it just politics? We have to change our ways from petty politics before it is too late for our people,” he said. President Ruto, Owino said, has today (Wednesday) met with Jubilee MPs and no politicians from the Central region has come out to condemn them. “We have not seen any residents or elected leaders politicizing the matter like those from Nyanza. We must change our tact on matters of politics,” he said. Ochuka advised leaders and residents from the Nyanza region to embrace the government of the day on matters concerning developments. “We pay taxes just like other Kenyans and deserve to benefit from projects. These are the projects the leaders we elected went to follow up on. There is nothing wrong with that visit,” he said. Ochuka said Raila remains the undisputed leader of the region but that should not block legislators from seeking developments from the government for the people. He noted that amongst those who visited the State House, none had defected from the ODM party and questioned why they were being condemned. “We are the ones who voted for them to initiate and lobby projects which can better our lives. There are no tangible projects you can realise without working together with the government,” Ochuka said. He added, “It is very painful to us that Raila is not the president despite massive support and having voted for him. It is time we work with President Ruto for the betterment of our people.” Ochuka said Ruto pledged development goodies for the region which needed to be followed up by those they mandated as voters. He termed it unfortunate that youths lack jobs and sugar factories are facing financial crises which need swift action yet some few individuals are busy criticizing leaders seeking solutions. “If we get means of reviving these collapsed factories then let’s embrace the initiative. Leaders who met Ruto meant well for the electorates,” Ochuka said. He also questioned why Ojienda was being singled out among those who met Ruto terming it a political witch-hunt. The archbishop cited the famous handshake between retired President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila which saw mega projects worth billions of shillings implemented in the region. They included the rehabilitated Sh 3 billion Kisumu port, railway line and ongoing roads across Nyanza. Lucas Otieno alias Dogo said it was unfortunate that leaders lobbying for projects for the people were being accused of betrayal. “Some of the MCAs are accusing leaders who met Ruto has not visited their wards to initiate projects yet they are busy playing cheap politics. You will meet voters come 2027,” Otieno said. Erick Otieno, a resident of Kisumu said no development can be done without the government. He criticised the double standard in the ODM party, noting that Kisumu governor Anyang Nyong’o visited Ruto and was not condemned.