Kwale County is yet to complete and put into practice the proposed gender-based violence bill. The new development comes after years of push and pulls by various human rights and Civil Society organization to have the gender policy approved. Talent and Social services county Executive Francisca Kilonzo said the bill is currently at the county assembly awaiting to be gazetted before becoming a law. "I spoke with the relevant authority and the answer is that the proposed bill is in the final stage," she said. Kilonzo said the bill is part of the county's commitment to end Gender Base Violence cases. The region is grappling with soaring teen pregnancies with over 19,000 cases reported in the past one and a half years. The majority of the victims fail to get proper justice due to compromised evidence, according to rights organizations. A huge percentage of the cases normally involve close relatives who interfere with the cases by compelling the victims to withdraw the charges or fail to appear before the court. The CEC said that once the bill is signed into law it will help cushion women and teens from the effects of GBV. The bill is expected to enable the county to allocate enough money in fighting the GBV menace. It will help in the establishment of well-furnished safe houses and rescue centers to support the recovery and trauma-healing process of GBV victims. The law will also assist the county to put in place proper frameworks to strengthen effective prevention, response and management of Sexual and gender-based violence (SGBV) cases. Kilonzo spoke when she held a consultative meeting with a delegation from the Sauti Ya Wanawake organization. They met to discuss the progress and possible partnership in the push for the approval of the county gender bill which has taken a long to be realized. Kilonzo said Kwale is at the forefront of ending GBV and will provide the necessary support to have the gender bill passed. County Assembly Gender chairperson Rachael Mutisya through a phone interview confirmed that the bill is yet to be signed into law. She said that the gender and special interest committee has already gone through the bill and processes are ongoing for its gazettement. "We are working with the executive to ensure the bill meets all thresholds and is adopted and so far we are heading towards the right direction," she said. Mutisya said after the bill has been gazetted, it will pass through other various stages including public participation before it is signed into law. Sauti ya Wanawake organization managing director Violet Muthiga said they will continue to partner with different stakeholders to reduce the GBV cases. She said the organization has always stood against inequality, gender bias and violence. Muthiga said the bill will empower various stakeholders to eradicate the GBV vice. County Gender Director Nelly Amoite said the anticipated county gender bill will support the existing laws to curb the problem.