Kenya Police head coach Francis Baraza has revealed the secret behind his team's recent winning streak in the Kenyan Premier League. Baraza, who is in his second month with the cops, has propelled the team to fifth place on the log with 28 points after 12 games, keeping them in contention for their first top-flight title. Under his leadership, Police have registered six wins in nine games. The former head coach of Tanzanian Premiership side, Kagera Sugar, attributed their impressive run to a change in tact and formation that are founded on his coaching philosophy. On Wednesday, they thrashed bottom-placed Mathare United 5-0 at Moi Stadium in Kasarani, their biggest win of the season. "I always deploy a large number of players high up on the pitch to assist us in making frequent inroads into the opponent's territory," explained Baraza. "That way, we can fire from all cylinders. Everyone, including the wingers, understands the importance of attacking collectively and quickly. That will be our primary weapon in the future. Scoring becomes easier with concerted effort," Baraza said. Baraza is encouraging his players to score as many goals as possible when the opportunity arises. "In football, it's very possible that at the end of the season, clubs will be tied on points and will have to rely on goal difference to win. That is something a team should capitalise on," Baraza said. Baraza says he is always thirsty to bag maximum points from every match on the card. "We have to work hard to make up the points we lost when we were defeated in the first three games," he said. Police will take on Bidco United in their next assignment on Sunday. In other matches scheduled for Sunday, leaders Nzoia Sugar will seek to consolidate their position when they host AFC Leopards at Sudi Stadium, Bungoma. Cash-strapped Vihiga Bullets have a Herculean task against revamped Ulinzi Stars at Bukhungu Stadium in Kakamega. More matches are slated for Saturday with the highlight being Gor Mahia against Nairobi City Stars at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Wazito will settle scores with Sofapaka at Muhoroni Stadium in Kisumu while KCB will look to reap big from the underwhelming Mathare United at Moi Stadium, Kasarani Annex. Kakamega Homeboyz will flex muscles with Posta Rangers at Bukhungu Stadium, Kakamega. Talanta will clash with Bandari at Kasarani Annex while champions Tusker have a tricky assignment against Kariobangi Sharks at Ruaraka grounds in Nairobi.