Marsabit county executive committee member for Culture, Gender, Tourism and social services Jeremy Ledaany accompanied by his Trade counterpart Adan Hirbo on Tuesday inspected the ongoing construction of the Sh83 million Bongole resort. The inspection is in line with Governor Mohamud Ali's commitment to the completion of the project. Speaking at the site, Ledaany said the hotel project was born out of the need for the county government to have a befitting facility to host important events and dignitaries. He assured that the money for the completion of the project had already been set aside despite the county experiencing a long dry period which forced the government to suspend all of its development projects to save the lives of residents and livestock. He said Marsabit county being a cradle of mankind provides endless opportunities for investment and with the completion of the hotel project, the county's economy is set to absorb a number of employed youths. He said Governor Mohamud's focus was to achieve shared prosperity, enhanced the delivery of vital services and improved the management of public resources. The county executive said, upon completion, the project will unlock significant tourism activities and attract both local and international investors. "We are in the process of reviving the stalled Bongole resort which will in turn create more employment opportunities for the youth," he said He said, the hotel wing has a state of the art rooms besides other amenities and is expected to fully operate by the end of this year, where those wishing to visit the county will be able to enjoy the modern facilities. He described the project as an encouragement to investors to move from Urban cities to rural centres. "By venturing into a project of this magnitude in the county, we are not only providing direct employment to the locals but guaranteed investors of good returns," said Jeremy He reiterated the county government's commitment towards exploiting the county's tourism potential which he described as being in line with Governor Mohamud's vision for delivering the sector. "We applaud the county government under the leadership of Governor Mohamud for committing to the completion of this ultra-modern hotel facility. This initiative is in tandem with county government efforts to develop the country's tourism sector," he said The CECM culture, Gender and social services Mr Jeremy Ledaany said the resort is one of its kind in the county and has more than 15 rooms, a swimming pool, a restaurant conference and parking space and it's a source of pride not only to the county government but to entire residents of Marsabit county. The executive explained that governor Mohamud-led administration decided to resume work on the hotel after observing that the project was economically viable. Hirbo thanked the local community for giving out the land for investment and for their cooperation during the construction of the project. He said the project will be completed by end of this year, asking the investors to invest in the project. He said the county government aims to provide efficient, well-organized and user-friendly services with a vision to promote a healthy environment that both tourists and locals can enjoy while doing their business. Karare MCA Joseph Leruk praised the multimillion project, saying it would give youths more opportunities while reviving the county's economy. "I'm sure it is going to be a first-class facility in the region and I was delighted it would create more job opportunities for young people," said Leruk. "The Bongole resort upon completion will elevate the county as a tourists attraction centre, attracting different classes of people," he said