@ppcheti What's that big long lump in my bed? It just moved! Better be careful and don't fling back the bedsheets. Kenyans and East Africans in general have been urged to be extra cautious as the heatwaves in the region could send snakes into the relative coolness  of their homes. And their beds, closets and corners. They cannot regulate their own temperature so they depend on their environment to warm them up and cool them down. Owing to the extreme heat waves in East Africa, there is a high possibility that snakes and other reptiles might slither into homes in search of cooler environments. Safety management officer of Kakamega county Henry Omuche encourages residents, especially in rural areas to observe safety tips during the "snake season". He asks the public to avoid leaving windows open for too long since snakes like cobras and mambas can reach considerable heights. People are also advised to avoid leaving their front doors open in the evenings as snakes are extremely stealthy and you won’t hear or see them slither inside. “Before you sit under that cooling tree shade, be sure to check the branches for snakes that could be lurking in the branches. Also check your bed and surrounding before you sleep as snakes are notorious for hiding under the sheets," Omuche says. He also advises people to avoid the temptation to chill outside their houses with their mattresses or sleeping bags as snakes are nocturnal and are highly skilled and effective hunters at night. The safety officer warns that apart from snakes, people should equally beware of the age-old human enemy; the centipede, which is swift and highly venomous. “This is the time to clear bushes round your house as they attract rats and mice which are a snake’s favourite snack,” he says. He also urges homeowners to stock snake repellent powder which should be poured around the yards or burn rubber tyres around the fence areas as they decrease snakes visits by more than 90 percent. “One can also use cow dung by pouring it along the fence of homestead boundaries as it’s also effective in keeping snakes away for those that might not afford snake repellent,”he adds. Omuche however warns of extreme caution when confronting snakes once they get into homes bearing in mind that they are very agitated because of the hot season. He says that while some snakes can be killed easily, others like the black mamba, are very aggressive and if threatened, will chase you at an alarming speed and give multiple bites while at it. “The bite victims may not live to see the next forty minutes. So, just be very careful when trying to kill those snakes," Omuche says. "Let’s all beware because the snake season is here with us." There are snake catchers, of course, but who wants to wait. Better to close the door with the serpent inside and make sure no cousins are lurking elsewhere. (Editedby V.Graham)