The Nairobi county government is betting on the much-awaited Bus Rapid Transit to help cut greenhouse gas emissions. Governor Johnson Sakaja said through BRT which they are supporting ‘they want Nairobi to be an example for the rest of Africa.’ “In 2016, greenhouse gas emissions amounted to 4.7 metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent which is equivalent to 4.2 tonnes per person. The transport sector represented the largest contributor at 45 per cent,” Sakaja said. Sakaja’s speech was read on his behalf by his deputy James Muchiri at Safari Park Hotel during a two-day inaugural Electric Mobility (e-mobility) conference at Safari Park Hotel. The conference brought together all the critical stakeholders on e-mobility including policymakers, technology providers, transport sector players, investors, financiers, researchers, and enabling partners such as Kenya Power and Lighting Company. The goal of the forum was to enrich policy considerations, share discourse on strategies that create an enabling environment for the budding industry, ascertain grid readiness, and shape the development of ecosystems on e-mobility that can be deployed locally and regionally. Sakaja said road vehicles were the single largest source of emissions. He said the development of green and sustainable mass transit systems will help reduce congestion and greenhouse emissions. “Nairobi accounts for approximately five per cent of Kenya’s total emissions. If we continue with business as usual, the city’s emissions would reach 18.7 metric tonnes by 2030,” he warned. The outcome of the modal switch is predicted to be a 1.3 metric tonnes reduction by 2035 and 2.5 reductions per year by 2050. Nairobi extended condition targets aim to achieve a 24 per cent reduction by 2025 and a 12 per cent reduction by 2035 and strive to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. He said the targets can only be achieved through the availability of resources as well as technology transfer and capacity building. Sakaja said works on BRT were ongoing and could be up and running by September if the contractor is paid. Traffic snarl-ups in the Nairobi metropolis are estimated to cost the country Sh2 billion annually. The Nairobi Metropolitan Area Transport Authority (NaMATA) is implementing BRT. NaMATA seeks to establish an integrated, efficient, effective and sustainable public transport system. NaMATA was established by former President Uhuru Kenyatta on February 9, 2017. It covers Nairobi, Kiambu, Kajiado, Machakos and Murang’a counties. BRT project was allocated Sh1.2 billion in the 2022-23 budget by the National Treasury. Already, five corridors have been identified by authorities to decongest Nairobi roads. Line one is to run from James Gichuru Road-Waiyaki Way to JKIA, a distance of 20km. The 31km line two will run from Lang’ata Road to Ngong Road, Juja Road, and Komarock Road to Ruiru with major stops at Dandora, Kariobangi and Gikomba Market. Line three will run from Githurai through Thika Road to Moi Avenue in the CBD, terminating at Kenyatta National Hospital. In November 2019, the government floated the BRT tender, saying it intends to improve the Thika Superhighway infrastructure to accommodate the project. The project will be carried out in two phases under one contract. The first section will be between Clayworks and the Nairobi CBD, while the second phase will start from Clayworks to Ruiru. A Chinese firm, Stecol Corporation, secured the Sh5.6 billion contract to construct special lanes for high-capacity buses. The buses are to operate between Thika Superhighway, Nairobi city centre and Kenyatta National Hospital. The main depot for line three is at Kasarani while other minor depots will be at the Kenyatta National Hospital and Ruiru. At Kasarani, the maintenance block that can accommodate 10 BRT buses at the same time and is expected to be completed soon is underway. Platforms for picking up and dropping off passengers are also at an advanced stage of construction. There are two access points to the Kasarani depot. The buses which are 12 metres and 18 metres long described by engineers as kneeling buses are set to be used in BRT. This is to ensure that they accommodate all passengers. The implementation line three which runs from Githurai through Thika Road to Moi Avenue in the CBD, terminating at Kenyatta National Hospital has, however, been slowed by the lack of resources as the National Treasury is yet to release money. Sh200 million is yet to be paid to the contractor. Sakaja said line three which should be up and running by September will be a good example to the other players to see what can happen. “Corridors are potential for investors to sue electric buses to use clean energy to decongest our city,” he said. Sakaja said BRT will augur well with their manifesto of creating a city of order, dignity, hope and opportunities for all. “Order cannot come when you do not have order in the transport sector and the way you manage transport,” Sakaja said. He said the county will avail land for charging infrastructure. Sakaja said space in Dandora for the line that goes a long Juja Road and for the creation of park and ride facilities has been availed. Authorities said the semi-public charging point’s location will be apartment complexes, office campuses, gated communities, hospitals, universities, government buildings and many others. Public charging will be located in public parking lots, petrol stations, highways, and bus stations. In Dandora, about 3,000 households are impacted and we have to find a way of getting them alternative land. Urban planning processes will have to integrate electric charging systems. The Climate Change Act of 2016 requires all sectors of government to promote low-carbon technologies to improve efficiency and reduce emission intensity by facilitating approaches and uptake of technologies that support low-carbon and climate-resilient development. Nairobi’s climate action plan 2020-50 aims to achieve a 24 per cent reduction below business-as-usual emissions by 2025, 12 per cent by 2035, and carbon neutrality by 2050.