Veteran Kenyan pugilist, Elly Ajowi, has vowed to prove to his critics that he still possesses the mojo to assert himself in the ring. The Kenya Police corporal has vowed to wow boxing enthusiasts with an inspiring performance both on the local and international front. "It's not over for me just yet. I'm looking forward to a brilliant performance this year," Ajowi said. “I'd like to leave a legacy, one that will inspire the next generation of Kenyan boxers. This will be my year," he added. Ajowi kicked off this season's campaign with a bang after bagging gold at the East Africa boxing invitational tournament that was held in Tanzania last month. The Kenyan delegation to Dar-es-salaam comprised boxers who had clinched titles after intensive five rounds of the National Boxing League. “I had a successful trip to Tanzania in January that set my season in motion. It gives me the urge and confidence to grace more tournaments," Ajowi said. The former Africa Zone III super heavyweight champion said his feat in the East African neighbourhood strengthened his self-belief. “It's quite encouraging to usher in the season with gold and I hope to bag even more here and abroad." Ajowi is eyeing one last vintage run this season that will cap off his glamorous career that has spanned more than a decade. Even though he already has his eyes firmly set on taking up a coaching role once he quits the ring, Ajowi believes the time is still on his side to garnish his cabinet with more honours. “Without a doubt, I'll be joining the growing list of boxing coaches in the country once I'm done with competing," he said. “There is a need for boxers who have been in the field for a long time to share their experiences and pass down the expertise they have gathered." This season, he will look to replicate the exploits that fired him to the national boxing league title on a clean slate. Ajowi was on a roll and won all five rounds of the super heavyweight division, his splendid run propelling the law enforcers to a successful title defence in the Grand Finale of the tournament last December. Besides other achievements in the ring, comprising the Kenyan quartet that graced the 2020 Summer Olympics in Tokyo, Japan was one of his defining moments. “I will still be battling hard to make the national team this year, " he concluded.