A 38-year-old teacher is on the run after he allegedly defiled six girls and impregnated one at Nyajanja mixed secondary in Rangwe constituency. Learners at the school threatened to go on a rampage after knowing the teacher was engaging in sexual activities with some of the girls. Preliminary investigations revealed that the teacher would send the girls love messages on phones and lure them into his trap. They were communicating after evening studies before the girls sneak out of their dormitory. They used to meet at the pit latrine where the acts took place. The medical report revealed that the teacher had carnal knowledge with the six students in the boarding section. Security officers went to the school on February 13, 2023, to investigate the issue after they heard some students wanted to go on strike following the matter before some of the affected girls narrated their ordeal. One of them was found to have conceived after undergoing a medical test. On Tuesday, a team led by Rangwe MP Lillian Gogo, Deputy County Commissioner Alfet Jillo and Rangwe Education Director Robert Nyaberi visited the school. Gogo said the incident had brought tension in the school and there was need for an urgent address. She described the incident as unfortunate and called on school girls to open up and report people who violate them sexually. “The increased cases of pregnancies and HIV infections among school girls in this area are a result of defilement. We must join hands and stop all vices that can ruin the future of girls in Rangwe,” Gogo said. The pregnancy case is among hundreds that affect teenagers in Homa Bay. Gogo said community members should be sensitised about the need to protect teenage girls to reduce such cases. “We have had cases where girls die due to defilement. We must condemn and take legal action against the teacher and other people who sexually violate young girls,” he said. They called for concerted efforts in protecting teenage girls and ending Gender Base Violence (GBV), HIV infections and teen pregnancies. “There is need for a conversation about menaces that affect girls and society. We want our teen girls to concentrate on their studies and report anyone making sexual advances to them.” Jillo said the case at the school is being investigated by security officers from Rangwe police station. She added that cases of defilement are becoming rampant in Kochia ward within the constituency. “Teachers Service Commission (TSC) Act and teachers code of regulations demands that teachers be role models to children. Legal action must be taken against the teacher who fail to follow the law,” Nyaberi said.