The National Cohesion and Integration Commission has summoned Nairobi County Assembly Majority leader Peter Imwatok over his utterances during Raila's meeting at Chungwa House. The Commission is investigating the utterances the ODM-elected Makongeni MCA made on January 25. According to NCIC, Imwatok said, "Azimio eee Azimio aaa, wamama tuungane tumalize kazi, wababa tuungane tumalize kazi, vijana tuungane tumalize kazi, Azimio eee Azimio aaa." "Lazima tumalize kazi ya ikulu na tunaongoja baada ya hapa Baba atwaambie kama ni hiyo Sunday tutoke uko Jacaranda , kama tanatembea Jogoo Road, tuingie town, tupande processional way, gate A." In the letter addressed to Imwatok, the commission’s CEO Skitter Ocharo said the words were calculated to be inciting, threatening, abusive and insulting contrary to Section 13(1) (a) of the National Cohesion and Integration Act. Imwatok is expected to record a statement with NCIC next week on Tuesday. “Take notice that you are hereby to appear before the National and Integration Committee at the offices at Britan Towers on February 7, at 11 am to assist the commission with aforementioned ongoing investigations,”  reads the letter dated January 30. He was told to take further notice that pursuant to Section 29 of the NCI Act, summons issued by the Commission must be obeyed as if the summons were issued by the court. Failure to appear in person at the aforementioned place, date and time, is an offence as provided under Section 63(c) as read with Section 63 (e) of the National Cohesion and Integration Act. Imwatok's summon comes a day after a Nairobi court dismissed an application by the police that sought to detain Korogocho MCA Absalom Odhiambo for seven days pending investigations in the alleged hate speech case. Milimani principal magistrate Gilbert Shikwe ruled that the application filed was not based on any legal provision. He directed the police to release Odhiambo with immediate effect. Odhiambo was arrested while he waited to talk to National Cohesion and Integration Commission officials at their Upper Hill offices. He was waiting to record a statement. The Commission had summoned Odhiambo over remarks he made during an Azimio grassroots leaders meeting hosted by ODM leader Raila Odinga on Wednesday last week. Speaking during the Sunday rally, Odhiambo allegedly used inciteful words.