By now, you must have heard of the R1 billion (Sh7.2 billion) deal that South Africa wants to sign with English Premier League giants Tottenham Hotspur to market the country to viewers of the Premier League. There has been so much controversy around the deal that for the time being, it looks as though the idea may have to die to be resurrected at another time. Just in case your attention has been focussed on other matters, such as the return of the tax-paying mummy from Gatundu, let me fill you in. Some of the people who market South Africa abroad have had their thinking caps on in the search for ideas to bring more people to the country. It appears one of their ideas, the one that has got the whole country talking about them and not in a good way, was a R1 billion deal with English Premier League giants Tottenham Hotspur, in which a slogan like “Visit SA” or something along those lines would be pasted across the team’s kit. Ordinarily, this would be considered a good idea, even if not a terribly  original one, had it not been for the fact that right at the moment the news of the proposal was leaked to the media, the South African public is more concerned with the power crisis, crushing inflation and fuel and food price hikes. So instead of getting bouquets, the bosses at the nation’s marketing entity are receiving almost daily barbs. Even the President, who has his eye on a possibly difficult 2024 election, is not a fan of the deal. In fact, the way things look at the moment, the deal might as well be dead, and it will take a miracle to revive it and get the public’s backing at the same time. Fortunately for the tourism marketing body, the man at the helm has some experience in resurrection. Social media warriors have been busy reminding everyone who cares that the man in charge of marketing the country also holds a senior position in a church that some might recall was involved in a case where it claimed to be in a position to resurrect the dead. But perhaps this deal may be a little too far gone, even for divine assistance. Also, if memory serves, the whole saga about a man being resurrected from the dead at the Alleluia International Ministries church ended up being a scam. Nevertheless, one could say things are looking up as far as tourism to South Africa is concerned. The industry appears to be properly on the rebound after the ravages of Covid-19 and associated lockdowns and travel restrictions. Recent data from the national statistical service and other sources point to a seasonal boom with arrivals and hotel bookings at a peak in tourist attractions such as Cape Town. Cape Town International Airport is processing up to 30,000 passengers a day, and the city’s authorities estimate that between now and March, they will have 1.68 million two-way seats available, and will land 191 international flights a week, generating about R8 billion (about KSh57.6 billion) in tourism spend. Across the whole country, foreign traveller arrivals increased by 179.8 per cent from 347,188 in December 2021 to 971,425 in December 2022. The country’s main marketing agency says tourists come to South Africa because of the country’s reputation as a destination that offers such an extensive variety of breathtaking holidays and experiences throughout the year. Currently it’s summer here, so since December, the days have been longer and the weather has for the most part been nice and hot. European and North American tourists, and others from places where it is cold at this time of year, tend to follow the sun if they can afford to, and for the first time since Covid-19, the tourism industry is coining it. Sadly for people like me who dislike the colder seasons, this perfect weather will all come to an end in mid-March or thereabouts, and then I will be in need of a miracle, too.