Four counties are on the path to being declared malaria-free after showing a prevalence of less than one per cent over a considerable period. Health experts say that Nyandarua, Laikipia, Nyeri and Kirinyaga are nearly being declared free of the disease. Dr Omar Ahmeddin, the Ministry of Health's head of the malaria national programme, said the four counties are a case study for efforts required in the rest of the country. “They have low local transmission. We want the rest of the country to learn from the four to reduce prevalence with the aim of attaining a malaria-free Kenya,” he said. He spoke in Nairobi ahead of a three-day malaria conference starting Wednesday. Dr Omar said the country was on the path to cutting malaria incidents, having reported a reduction from 113 cases per 1,000 in 2016 to 86 cases per 1,000 people today. “The overall goal is to cut to 28 cases per 1,000 by 2023. We have not met the target but you can see the cases are reducing,” he said. Dr Omar said overall, the country has reduced prevalence by 50 per cent in the past 10 years to stand at six per cent from 11 per cent in 2010. “Currently we are at six per cent annually across the country. Meaning that for every 100 people, six are carrying the parasite. This is not the case all over the country though as there are different regions where malaria prevalence is higher,” the expert said. Prevalence is said to be higher in the counties around the lake  - at 19 per cent for the eight counties in the lake region, five per cent in the Coastal region, and two per cent in the Northeastern. In the Mt Kenya region, the prevalence is less than one per cent. “It is in the Mt Kenya region where we have started putting four counties for elimination.” Dr Omar said they have initiated baseline surveys to monitor the few cases and have active surveillance. “We follow any person with a reported case to their neighbourhood so as to see what we can do to interrupt transmission in that area,” he said. He said the lessons from low-infested areas would be replicated in other areas across the country. Experts from the MoH and Kemri also confirmed the presence of a new malaria-causing mosquito known as anopheles stephensi. The species, the experts said, has been spotted in Marsabit's Saku and Laisamis constituencies, allaying fears it is drug-resistant and not easy to kill. Dr Omar said tests from their survey have shown that the mosquito is susceptible to locally available insecticides. However, he said the species is a game-changer as it inhabits clean environments – clean water, and gutters for tapping rainwater. “It breeds differently from other anopheles mosquitoes. It lives in small containers, and is an urban malaria transmitter,” Dr Omar said. He said the government has embarked on active surveillance in the stephensi-infested areas and guidelines were being developed on how to handle it. A number of researchers have submitted their abstracts for the conference where the emerging issues of malaria are expected to be canvassed. Dr Cecilia Mbae of Kemri said they had received about 240 abstracts from various researchers for presentation at the event, expected to draw more than 600 participants.