Director-General, Department of African Affairs, MFA, China Wu Peng has said a non-discriminatory investment environment is vital following stand-off revolving around China Square. Through his official Twitter account, Peng said a non-arbitrary surrounding is key to the healthy development of bilateral practical cooperation. "I believe that through collective efforts, China-Kenya cooperation will better benefit both peoples," he said. Peng was responding to Foreign Affairs PS Korir Sing'Oei who said no lawful investment actor, irrespective of their nationality should be apprehensive. "Kenya's investment regime is non arbitrary & non discriminatory," he said. “All actors, no matter their nationality- operating within the law should suffer any apprehension,” he said. On Sunday, China Square announced that the shop will remain closed indefinitely to allow time to sort out a number of issues. In a notice on its official Facebook page on Sunday, the retailer said the provision of sufficient security is among the issues to be addressed during the closure period. "We, China Square Limited, regret to inform you that we will continue to close down for further notice," the statement reads in part. The outlet listed other issues that necessitated the indefinite closure which include a shortage of tills and misleading statements about its operations. "Some of the statements on the internet have been misleading people, and some customers have overrated our services which have created unrealistic expectations," the statement read in part. Several leaders have also come out in defence of China Square following remarks made by Trade and Investment Cabinet Secretary Moses Kuria. The CS had indicated that he wants China Square out of the Kenyan market. Former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo said the government cannot close China Square at the pretence of protecting local retailers. "In other words, Kenyans buy commodities at expensive prices, who should we protect more?" he said. Kabogo further said he had gone shopping at China Square and bought commodities at an affordable price. "I purchased a cabro brush at Sh400 which costs Sh950 at Gikomba. Who’s fooling who?" he said.