The role of women in changing Africa's leadership and governance for the better is a topic that has gained increased attention in recent years. Despite progress in some areas, Africa remains one of the regions with the lowest representation of women in political and economic leadership positions. However, a growing number of women are breaking down barriers and challenging traditional norms to lead and shape the future of the continent. One of the ways in which women are changing Africa's leadership and governance for the better is through their representation in government. Research has shown that countries with higher levels of gender diversity in leadership positions tend to have more effective governance, better policies, and improved outcomes for all citizens. In recent years, a number of African countries have implemented quotas for women's representation in parliament, and this has resulted in a significant increase in the number of women elected to office. Tanzania and Rwanda were ranked as the most improved country in the governance and leadership index by the 2023 Mo Ibrahim Report, coincidentally Tanzania has her first female president and Rwanda’s parliament has a women majority. Another way in which women are changing Africa's leadership and governance for the better is through their activism and advocacy. Women's rights organisations and activists across the continent are using social media, grassroots campaigns, and other strategies to raise awareness about gender-based violence, unequal access to education and employment, and other issues that affect women and girls. Through their activism, they are calling for policies and programs that support gender equality and empower women to lead and shape their own futures. In addition, women are also changing Africa's leadership and governance through entrepreneurship and innovation. Women-led businesses are driving economic growth and creating jobs across the continent, and they are also shaping new industries and markets. Women entrepreneurs are often leaders in the tech sector, where they are leveraging digital technologies to drive innovation and create new opportunities for growth and development. Finally, women are changing Africa's leadership and governance by leading and inspiring future generations. By breaking down barriers and challenging traditional norms, women are demonstrating to young girls and women that leadership is not just for men and that they can be successful and make a positive impact in their communities and beyond. In conclusion, the role of women in changing Africa's leadership and governance for the better is critical. By increasing representation in government, advocating for gender equality, driving economic growth, and inspiring future generations, women are shaping a more inclusive and equitable future for the continent. It is important that governments and other stakeholders continue to support and empower women to lead and shape the future of Africa. The writer is Ahmed Kaballo, CEO and founder, African stream.