Regional balancing interests and failure to make applications could have seen key politicians miss out on the shortlist for Chief Administrative Secretary positions. The Public Service Commission on Monday shortlisted 224 candidates that will battle it out for what is projected to be some 40 CAS slots. Notably, a number of politicians who played key roles in President William Ruto's presidential campaigns missed out on the shortlist. While it is not clear whether they applied, the CAS positions are considered to be the second most powerful posts after Cabinet Secretaries and it was expected they would try their luck. However, President Ruto who has confounded his foes with his quintessential political reward scheme could still dish out ambassadorial jobs to them in the coming months. There have been reports that President Ruto could recall as many as two dozen of ambassadors and High Commissioners appointed during his predecessor Uhuru Kenyatta's term. Among those not on the list, although it is unclear whether they applied, are outspoken lawyer Miguna Miguna and retired Migori governor Okoth Obado. Miguna, a former Ruto critic turned ally, was critical in Ruto's online campaigns after falling out with Azimio boss Raila Odinga following his controversial deportation to Canada. Other names include former Baringo governor Stanley Kiptis who lost in his bid to defend the seat to his predecessor Benjamin Cheboi in the UDA primaries. Also not the CAS posts is Charles Keter, the former Cabinet Secretary for Energy who was defeated in the UDA primaries for the Kericho governor's race. Keter, Ruto's personal friend, had lost to a university lecturer, Eric Mutai, in the race to succeed Governor Paul Chepkwony. Former former East African Chief Administrative officer in Uhuru's regime Ken Obura, ex-Kasarani MP John Njoroge and former Embakasi West MP George Theuri. Theuri is currently attached to the Office of the Deputy President. Majority of the losers in the UDA nominations including ex-Eldama Ravine MP Moses Lessonet and his former Kuresoi North counterpart Moses Cheboi were not on the list. Former Inspector-General of Police Joseph Boinnet who lost in the UDA nominations in Elgeyo Marakwet, ex-Naivasha MP Jane Kihara and ex-Laikipia West MP Patrick Mariru were not on the list as well. Youthful politicians who campaigned for Ruto from Gusii region including Okeng'o Nyambane and Charles Matoke.