The World Health organisation lists migraines as a type of headache disorder warning that they are responsible for high population levels of disability and ill health. Though most people do not treat migraines as serious since they are mostly episodic, do not cause death, and are not contagious, it is advisable to see a doctor if you have frequent or severe migraine symptoms. According to WHO, migraines most often begin at puberty, most affect those aged between 35 and 45 years and are more common in women. UK’s National Health Service estimates it affects around one in every five women and around one in every 15 men. WHO on the other hand says migraines are caused by the activation of a mechanism deep in the brain that leads to the release of pain-producing inflammatory substances around the nerves and blood vessels of the head. Stress, tiredness and certain foods, as well as the starting of periods, are some of the factors that have been identified to trigger migraines. Alcohol, weather changes, dehydration, sleep changes, teeth grinding at night and hunger are also possible triggers. “Around half of all people who experience migraines also have a close relative with the condition, suggesting that genes may play a role,” NHS states. Experts say that even though there is no cure for migraines a number of treatments are available to help reduce the symptoms. Painkillers including over-the-counter medicines like paracetamol can help alleviate the pain. During an attack, many people find that sleeping or lying in a darkened room can also help. “If you suspect a specific trigger is causing your migraines, such as stress or a certain type of food, avoiding this trigger may help reduce your risk of experiencing migraines,” it notes. Maintaining a healthy lifestyle, including regular exercise, sleep and meals, as well as ensuring you stay well hydrated and limiting your intake of caffeine and alcohol can also come in handy. Johns Hopkins Medicine on the other hand says migraines can be sensitive to light, noise or smells. The site says that many people experience numbness, confusion, trouble speaking, vertigo (spinning dizziness) and other stroke-like neurological symptoms.