Catholic Bishop of Eldoret Dominic Kimengich is calling for an end to banditry attacks in Kerio Valley urging those with illegal arms to surrender them and embrace peace. He says the bandits must drop their guns and choose opt for peace because the attacks for years but it had not benefited anyone or any of the affected communities. “I plead with those holding the illegal guns, please drop them and embrace peace. This war has not been of any benefit to us. It’s an embarrassment to us because we are one people killing each other,”Kimengioch said. The clergyman who appeared angered by the banditry activities spoke when he paid a courtesy call on Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Wesley Rotich before visiting some if then stricken areas in Kerio Valley. Kimengich said leaders from the affected counties should also come together and dialogue on how to restore peace in the region. Kimengich said insecurity has affected lives in the region, paralysing education and all other development activities. He says the church will also help in efforts to restore peace. “As a church we are even ready to hold meetings with all stakeholders so that we discuss peace in Kerio Valley where many people have lost their lives. We have to help end the killings,” he said. Kimengich said it’s only through dialogue that residents would be able to address the challenges they face instead of engaging in retrogressive acts of banditry. He also urged the government to carry out disarmament to get rid of the illegal guns and also put in place alternatives for residents to earn a living instead of relying on cattle rustling. Governor for Elgeyo Marakwet Wisley Rotich said the church had an important role to play in helping to restore peace in Kerio Valley. “The bishop has come at the right time when we really need the church’s intervention to help us get peace in Kerio Valley. We are ready to work with him on the path to peace”, Rotich said. Kimengich’s visit came as CS for interior Kithure Kindiki was going on with a tour of the regions affected by banditry to help enforce new security measures. At least 15 people were killed by the bandits in the month of January in the most affected counties of Elgeyo Marakwet, Baringo, Samburu, West Pokot and Turkana. Rotich says they have tried all means possible but banditry is now a threat to all lives in the region with attackers getting more bold and brutal. He says the continued attacks indicate that human life has been taken lightly. “We have tried all strategies that include dialogue, signing of accords, leaders meetings, security meetings ,issuing of ultimatums, peace meeting, ,peace committees, sports, joint agriculture activities at Tot-koloa, joint grazing and evangelism by religious groups.” He said they had also tried deployment of police reservists, use of drones and even bringing the entire security docket leadership to the Kerio valley but residents had no hope for peace in sight. “With all the above strategies tried, the menace seems to be getting worse and bandits are getting bloodier and bolder by day,” Rotich said He, however, urged residents to remain calm and avoid revenge as a solution is sought. “To our neighbours in Tiaty and West Pokot let us all embrace peace. We have all lost in this war, none of us will ever win. "It's only Satan and then evil who celebrate when young children, women, old men, youth are killed.”Rotich said. The governor said he had come to the conclusion that with many guns in wrong hands there would be no peace in the region. “I hereby also urge the government to embark on a targeted massive disarmament in the entire region and have KDF camps in Koloa Kobot, Dira and along the Kerio border put up,”Rotich said. (Edited by V.Graham)