Kakamega county polytechnics have been asked to embrace performance contracting as a management tool to improve performances in the institutions and equally achieve set objectives. The county has a total of 63 polytechnics located across various major towns and centres with thousands of students enrolled. According to the Kakamega county Chief Officer for Education Leah Khasandi, the performance contracts will also improve the utilization of resources in the institutions and equally enable them to achieve other set objectives. Speaking during a consultative meeting between the county education department and principals from all 63 institutions on Friday, Khasandi reiterated that there is a positive relationship between performance and effective resource utilization. The officer equally called on the principals to further cascade the same to their subordinates so as to enhance the productivity of the learning institutions. She also asked the Officers to nurture the culture of proper planning and accountability in their respective institutions. “The contracts will help our institutions to operate better and achieve better results and objectives," she said. The county CEC for Education Godfrey Owori urged the polytechnic heads to inculcate productive skills into the students while keeping in mind that the institutions are key in the realization of the county’s manifesto on improved standards of the devolved education function. The County Government has equipped Polytechnics to offer various courses among them building and masonry, plumbing, catering and hairdressing. He assured that the institutions will receive capitation from the County Government and encouraged Heads of the institutions to engage in income-generating activities both as a way of motivating the learners and to create their own income as training institutions. The county head of treasury Herman Lusuli encouraged the principals to adhere to the Public Finance Management Act 2012 while reminding them to follow the laid down procedures while delivering their mandate. “Stay legal and just do your job right," he said.