Africa Nazarene University coach Mike Oluoch is worried about his team’s dip in form in the Kenya National Basketball League (KNBL). The 'Wolfpacks', who had a bright first leg, beating Kenya Ports Authority and falling to Ulinzi Warriors by a basket, are now struggling to win matches. It was their eighth loss. The students lost  90-45 to Equity Bank Dumas and 62-58 to bottom Zetech University Titans at the Ulinzi Sports Complex, Langata. “We played badly. It’s been a bad game for us. I can’t deny it. We need to go back to the drawing board and work on a lot of things.” admitted Oluoch. He went on: “I will have a long talk with the players to iron out things and see where the problem is. The work we now have is to prepare for the next game.” ANU trailed 22-3 in the first quarter after a scoreless run in the opening six minutes. They managed to drag close 15-14 in the second before tumbling 30-15 and 23-13 in the last two quarters. Dumas's new signing Cliff Alela dropped a game-high of 26 points with national team backcourt pair Victor Bosire and Victor “Electric” Ochieng providing 20 and 15 respectively. But while Oluoch was bemoaning his team's dwindling fortunes in the second leg, the bankers' coach David Maina hailed his boys' display saying they were well prepared for the duel. “We got hem flat foot. We have been working on teamwork and I am happy that it is working out well. We will maintain the tempo before the playoffs.” Offered Maina. The veteran tactician said his team now has depth with young Marol Ache, who played in only his first game showing he was equal to the task. “By the time we get to the playoffs, the young man Marol is going to be up to the task. You have seen his first game and he has been able to play well. In terms of defence, he is very tall and in offence, he gets a lot of rebounds.” The win pushed Equity Bank closer to leaders Warriors with 30 points from 16 games. The soldiers, who also beat the University of Nairobi 'Terrorists'89-71, are top with 31 points from 17 ties. 