Equity Bank teams head coach David Maina says his charges will be in Eldoret and Kisumu this weekend for nothing short of wins. The bankers start their Kenya National Basketball League campaign at the Uasin Gishu Primary School courts where the Hawks play Eldonets and Dumas meet Eldonets Platinum. Hawks are placed sixth on the log with 26 points and will move to second with maximum points. Dumas lead in the men category and will push to 36 with wins. The teams drive to Kisumu the following day where Hawks will face off against Lady Bucks and Dumas confront Lakeside at the Manyatta Arab courts. Maina said the training has gone on well with no injury reported. "Four points is our target. We will approach both games with the seriousness it deserves," Maina offered. "Some of my players who had a national team assignments took a break on Tuesday but they will join the team before we travel for the away games." At the United States International University (USIU) courts, Zetech University Sparks will take on University of Nairobi Dynamites. UoN Terrorists Brimming with confidence after winning their two matches last weekend, play Moja in a game that will be closely contested. Meanwhile, women leaders Strathmore University Swords coach Ronny Owino said they will play to win all their three remaining fixtures in order to maintain the top spot. Swords are lying at the top of the 12 team table with 32 points having won 13 of their 19 matches played so far. They have three matches to complete their fixtures. Dynamites are second on 28 points, Storms (27), unbeaten Kenya Ports Authority, Zetech University Sparks and Equity Bank Hawks each have 26. "So far so good. We have the three games left for us to complete our regular season fixtures. We will work hard from there going forward," Owino said. "For the teams behind us, these are not assured wins and we remain hopeful that somewhere along the way, they will win some and lose some." Strathmore University Swords three remaining matches are against high riding Sparks former champions Hawks and UoN Dynamites. "The are all tough games but they are winnable. We will put our best foot forward and see what happens, "Owino remarked. The varsity side will miss the services of  Edna Kola and Alexander Juma through injury. "The injuries are a concern considering we are at the crucial stage of the season," Owino summed up.