Entrepreneur Jamal Marlow, popularly known as Jimal Rohosafi, is expecting a child with his employee, Michelle Thiong'o. Jimal chairs the Association of Matatu Operators and is also the CEO of Huduma Credit. Jimal announced the news to his social media fans on Valentine's Day. Speaking to Word Is, Jimal said Michelle has the qualities of a woman he was looking for. Jimal was dumped by his two wives, Amira and Amber Ray last year. Amira announced that she had filed for divorce over 'disrespect' while Amber said her relationship with Jimal had expired. Jimal told Word Is that he had dated Michelle for a year. "We started dating on Valentine's Day 2022. She was my employee but before that she was my friend and we would chat a lot," he said. Jimal said he got interested in her after he learnt that she had done a finance course in school. "I realised she is better off working in my company since she is hardworking and is also very intelligent," he said. "She has been assisting me and from her position, we became great friends and we ended up being lovers." Has she been introduced officially to his family? Jimal said they do most of their things privately since she is a private person. "I keep her life out there but most of the time she prefers it private. She wants to be like Beyonce and not be all over social media," he said. When it was rumoured that the two were dating, Jimal asked his ex-wife Amira for forgiveness but she refused, despite him pleading with her online. Amira said forgiving had put her back in one of the darkest places in her life as she suffered so much disrespect afterwards. "It's heavy, can't comprehend it right now but I ask Allah to give me grace. Some wounds just don't heal, you have to learn how to live with them." Jamal said his religion allows him to marry four wives. "When I asked for an apology, I was dating. What is so big? Is part of my religion and there is no sin there," he said. "I can marry today, tomorrow and is not a problem as long as I can manage." Jimal has promised to serve his fans more tea in 2023.