Western Jaguars coach Mike Malungu believes the African Club Championship will be a learning curve for his inexperienced young side. The week-long event at Dashmesh Hockey Stadium, along Forest Road, Nairobi from February 13-19, returns to the city after six years. Butali Warriors and Kenya Police will also represent the country in the men’s category. Strathmore Scorpions, Blazers and the Lakers will do duty in the women’s category. “The competition is new to all of us but we have to be at our best because we are meeting top teams in the championship. We have to learn very fast, adapt to the demands of the high-paced game, and probably give a good account of ourselves.” El Sharkia and Zamalek of Egypt highlight the foreign contingent expected in Nairobi. Ghana will be represented by Exchequers and Ghana Revenue Authority while Hippos Hockey Club will fly Zimbabwe’s flag. Nigerian pair of Kada Stars and Police Machine are also part of the quality field expected. The East African trio of Wananchi, Weatherheads (Uganda) and Tanzania’s Moshi Kalsa have also confirmed participation in the men’s category. GRA who are the defending women champions, Army Ghana, Sharkia, Delta and Kada Queens from Nigeria as well as Deliverance Church and Wananchi from Uganda complete the women cadre. “Of course, Butali and Police have been in this event before and so we are not underdogs. However, it’s unnecessary to put pressure on beginners. It is a once-in-a-lifetime chance and we have to hit the ground running.” “At this point, we don’t know our opponents but we have met them before at the national team level.” Jaguars have a fully fit squad, posing further selection headaches to the talent-rich squad. “Ivan Ludiali, Conrad Wafula, Bethwel Masambu and Kelvin Machinji are all available after missing the penultimate Wazalendo match,” Malungu confirmed. Malungu hinted that it will be tough to hold onto their talented players when the transfer window opens but admitted the Kakamega-based side will have solutions to every problem that will arise.