Elected leaders within the Azimio coalition will not abandon opposition chief Raila Odinga, Vihiga Senator Godfrey Osotsi has said. Osotsi said Raila remains the only hope for Kenyans in the midst of the rising cost of living and taxation by the Kenya Kwanza administration. The senator who spoke at his home in Vihiga said those saying Raila lieutenants have deserted him are spreading misinformation. Osotsi said President William Ruto has previously asked the opposition to be tough on his administration for proper checks and balances and that that is what Azimio is doing. "We are holding rallies across the country to educate our people about the Kenya Kwanza administration and their unfulfilled promises," he said. The National Cohesion and Integration Commission last week urged Azimio to suspend the planned rallies, saying the meetings are not good for the economy of the country. NCIC chairperson Rev Samuel Kobia said the planned activities are likely to disrupt peace and cohesion. “Raila is one leader who is most critical in terms of taking the country into elections mode. He should cease with the rallies,” Kobia said. Odinga claims a whistleblower who works with the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission had provided them with proof of how he was rigged out. He claims to have won the election by more than eight million votes against Ruto's 5.9 million. The Azimio brigade has held two rallies in Nairobi and several more are planned for other counties. Osotsi says Kenya Kwanza promised to lower the cost of living and the Head of State promised not to weaponise government institutions but what he is doing is exactly the opposite. “We as the Azimio team will reveal President Ruto's lies to Kenyans and we must educate them at all costs,” Ososti said. The lawmaker further dismissed the claims that the opposition leader is being funded by tax evaders. "I think those people who are saying Raila is being funded by former President Uhuru Kenyatta they are being dishonest," he said. The lawmaker has further questioned the taxing of M-Pesa transactions. "The president is also seeking to introduce double taxation without going through parliament, you can't tax money that has already been taxed either by sending or withdrawing," he said.