The Kenyan blogosphere has been abuzz about Kamene Goro’s abrupt exit from her morning show the whole week. Kamene, a Kiss 100 radio presenter for the morning show, was allegedly fired from her position for constant absenteeism. A rumour that has been denied by the former presenter when she spoke to reporters on her last day of work. “I have seen these stories, the truth is I was not fired. My contract elapsed and there was no need to move forward with it.” Kamene also claimed to have been ill for most of the year, which led to her not reporting for work on some days. The Twittersphere called out Kamene for disrespecting her employment and losing out on her half a million salary because of chasing influencer status. Some users said Kamene would claim to be out sick from work only to post photos of herself by the sea on her social media. I don't know Kamene neither am I familiar with her work. I do, however, understand the mindset of young people who achieve minor celebrity status. Young people with a big social media following spend too much time glamourising their jobs and lifestyles to their followers instead of actually doing the job they are paid to do. A trend that has contributed largely to the mass layoffs at Google and other tech companies in America. A few weeks ago, Google broke the news of firing 12,000 employees without notice. Most of the people who were laid off had no idea about what was happening in the company until they tried to access their emails or offices. Just like that, the job market is now saturated with thousands of unemployed people from big tech companies like Google, Amazon, Meta, Twitter and Cisco. The news sent shockwaves and panic around the globe. If big tech companies cannot afford to keep their staff, then what hope do the rest have? As soon as the news settled, however, the shock turned to sneer as people turned to the influencers who bragged about their big corporate jobs on social media. These so-called influencers used their statuses as employees in big corporate companies to build their social media following. They would vlog videos along the lines of, A day in the life of a Google employee or Come with me to my office at Google headquarters. They would proceed to share their cutesy dreamlike jobs with their followers, showing off their privileges at the office, such as free meals made by a chef or a snack bar filled with all the snacks imaginable. Some would even show how they had office masseuses at their beck and call. Influencers (or wannabe influencers) are too enamoured with gaining followers by showing off how and where they work, while forgetting to do the actual work. They spend a good chunk of their day busy glamourising their day jobs to strangers on the Internet, forgetting the simple fact that if we can see them, their bosses can see them, too. Because of the few people who rubbed our noses in their glamorous jobs, social media users lost all sympathy for the rest of the people who were laid off. I realise that the Internet is fundamentally entangled in our daily lives. However, it is possible to keep some aspects of our lives private. Especially those that we wish to keep secure; for instance, our day jobs, our children and our homes. In the shadow of the looming recession and current rates of inflation, employees need to focus on the jobs that pay the bills rather than the high that comes from being a well-known influencer or minor celebrity.