Aspiring Journalists in the upcoming Sports Journalists Association of Kenya elections have accused the current office of being unfair and ignoring their requests for information regarding the electro process while speaking at the press conference held at the Nyayo National Stadium, on Wednesday. Renowned sports journalist and aspirant treasurer Celestine Olilo raised concerns with the manner in which the electoral process has been conducted thus far. Ms Celestine revealed that numerous quests for information from team Nguvu Mpya had been ignored, and that the current secretariat is reluctant to address critical issues touching on the elections. “With just a week to the elections, we have information that the sports council will conduct the election. We would like to know when this body will be brought on board, which electoral guidelines they will follow, and if there will be room for appeal, in case of any dispute.’’ She said. “Some members of the current SJAK office are defending their seats. For this reason, we are wondering how independent the process will be, because until now, SJAK is the one organising the elections. How level will the ground be?’’ In order to address their concerns the candidates requested a meeting with the sports council but were met with silence. One of the main agendas of Nguvu Mpya will be to amend the constitution; to make it more inclusive to members says General Moses Wakhisi -aspiring Secretary. “I respect the current office, for they have done their best. We are however of the opinion that the time for change has come, and that we need fresh minds at the helm of our association.’’ Wakhisi said. “I appreciate the sponsors and appeal to even more support from the corporate world when we get into office. We plan to make SJAK great again, and we are keen to waive the money that some members owe the association so that we can move forward together. ’’ Renowned author James Waindi will run for chairman, while Mukami Wambora is keen on Organising Secretary position and Abuller Ahmed will be going for the Executive Member position.