Under the National Development Plan, Vision 2030, the government had targeted to provide 200,000 housing units annually for all income levels. With only 50,000 new housing units supplied every year, Kenya faces a shortage of about two million housing units. Most of the housing units are built by the private sector, with 80 per cent targeting the high-end market and only two per cent for the middle-income population. However, the Kenya Kwanza government wants to change this trend where President William Ruto plans to deliver 200,000 affordable housing units annually to Kenyans. Last Friday, he presided over the groundbreaking of the Shauri Moyo affordable housing project in Nairobi. The project site comprises two parcels of land measuring approximately 16 acres, located along First Avenue Eastleigh Road, Nairobi. The developer, Epco Builders Limited will construct 3,248 housing units at Sh10 billion. Lands, Public Works, Housing and Urban Development Cabinet Secretary Zacharia Mwangi, the proposed development will be a comprehensive affordable housing development comprising one-bedroom, two-bedroom, and three-bedroom units, all magnificently designed to meet modern lifestyle demands. “As such the units are larger than the minimum provided under the Program and the project will also cater to supporting internal infrastructure and amenities,” he said. The price will range between Sh1.2 million and Sh4 million, whereby bedsitters will consist of  152 units, one-bedroom (2oo units), tw0-bedroom (776 units), tw0-bedroom ( 1000 units), three-bedroom (500 units) and three bedrooms with ( 620 units). The variation of price for the two bedrooms and three depends on the size of the units. The prices of the units; bedsitter will cost Sh1.2 million, one bedroom- Sh1.5 million, two bedrooms (40 square metres) – Sh2 million, two-bedroom (55 square metres)- Sh2.7 million, three bedrooms (60 square metres) – Sh3 million and three bedroom (80 square metres) at Sh4 million. The project will  be undertaken in four phases for 24 months (two years) and will be completed in  January 2025 Under his government, President Ruto said that the Affordable Housing Project is an initiative by the government to facilitate Kenyans to access home ownership. Despite the housing units, the project will also feature social amenities inclusive of a social hall, nursery school and commercial/retail centres for business opportunities within the estate. There will also feature an outdoor kids' play area, an Upgrading of Heshima Primary school, a utility area and parking spaces provided for tenants For security and safety, there will be a secured boundary wall and green spaces and attractive landscaping throughout the project. A Community Hall will also be erected for society use and cabro paved driveways. The government will integrate youths and women into the project through the installation of approximately 14, 400 windows and 4,400 doors. To promote local business, these will be sourced from the local MSMEs. “This is in line with the government’s commitment to promoting women and youth, the developer will work closely with the local MSMEs that are largely owned by youth and women,” the CS said. Mwangi said Ngokamka Limited and Mutarakwa Harmony Cooperative will be signing a tripartite agreement with the Developer to undertake this work. Ngokamka Limited is an amalgamation of three Jua Kali clusters; Ngong Road Jua Kali Association (wood and metalwork), Kamukunji Jua Kali Association (metalwork) and Kariobangi Light Industries (wood and metalwork). It has 10,000 members who are tradespeople specialising in wood and metalwork. NKK participate in the pilot project for integration of Jua Kali MSMEs in the affordable housing program and successfully delivered on its aims. Mutarakwa Harmony Cooperative is registered and formed by youth from Eastlands to network, provide construction services and improve their livelihoods. “Although they initially worked as garbage collectors, they needed more opportunities to create more income hence they started venturing into construction activities like masonry, carpentry, painting, welding, electrical wiring, landscaping, and interior design among others,” Mwangi said. In line with the government’s intention to create jobs and income-generating opportunities, Mwangi said the strategic partner on this project will be working with local communities to ensure that there is participation in both employment and the local supply chain. “This project will adopt the ringfencing strategy for the supply of doors, windows, and other earmarked products which will be sourced from local MSMEs and Jua Kali Associations who will have corporatized,” he said. The related contract amounts for the project are estimated at Sh500 million, of which 50 per cent will be awarded to women-owned businesses. The project will also create at least 3,000 direct jobs at both skilled and unskilled levels. “The jobs will be offered to both women and men ensuring that there is an integration of typically excluded groups in the hiring of construction workers,” Mwangi said. The development will create a significant number of employment opportunities for the youth and women in the construction industry. It will generate over 5000 direct jobs in addition to other indirect jobs in other sectors which will greatly stimulate local economic development in its environs.