It is about 9am Monday and activities are running smoothly at the Gombato health dispensary in Ukunda, Kwale county. Agrippina Mwasi, who is among the first patients, is in the doctor's room for her monthly checkups. She is four months pregnant and is expecting to give birth to her second baby in the facility. Mwasi is one of the many women who flock Gombato dispensary because of its improved maternal services. The facility was renovated by the Community Development Agreement Committee. The CDAC was established in 2021 as part of the commitment of the Australian Mining firm, Base Titanium, to fulfil the Mining Act, 2016. At the moment, Base is ceding one per cent of its total annual revenue to benefit the mining-affected communities through development projects. At least three CDACs were formed, with the main one in Msambweni where mining activities occur. Another one is in Lunga-Lunga where mining-affected communities were relocated and the last one is in Likoni subcounty, Mombasa — where shipment of the mined minerals is done. Msambweni CDAC moved to rehabilitate and equipped the old Gombato health dispensary. The facility is owned by the county government. The CDAC allocated Sh7 million that was used to expand the maternity wing. It also contains a standard waiting bay for maternity patients, specialised rooms for delivery, monitoring and consultation offices for daily clinic services as far as antenatal and neonatal care are concerned. On its sides are modern toilets that are properly supplied with enough water for better hygiene and a kitchen to offer food for inpatients. Mwasi said since the maternity wing was upgraded women feel safe to deliver because of the improved healthcare services. "We are happy to get services here, they are good compared to before," she said, adding that some years back they had to seek maternal services elsewhere because the maternity was too small. Mwasi further said many women were suffering as they trek for more than five kilometres to get crucial healthcare in Diani town. Currently, the Gombato dispensary serves more than five villages. Earlier, the women were forced to deliver at home with the help of midwives, which was too risky. Some women lost their lives due to birth complications and others narrowly escaped death. Mwasi said the general health and lives of women have improved since they get the services in the nearby health facility. She said it was stressful and a heavy burden for them when they wanted to give birth. "The situation then was very dire, people use to worry because maternal services were hard to get," she said. Another woman, Mwanasiti Ngoni, who is also queuing for treatment, said most women couldn't afford to get maternal services in other health facilities. She said majority could get delivery signs late at night and because of insecurity and the high cost of transport, they decide to give birth at home. Ngoni said now many women are fond of the facility and enjoy the best services. "If you look around the dispensary there are a lot of people because of the improved maternal care," she said. Gombato clinical officer Shaban Matano said before the maternity services, there were major problems since they could only serve one person at a night. He said they can currently do more than three deliveries at a time because of the expanded bed capacity. "We were able to accommodate two people but now we have a bed capacity of 10," the medic said. The clinical officer said previously the patients had to share beds which contribute to little privacy. He further said previously they used to refer some women to other facilities because the maternity room was too small. The dispensary normally serves an average of 50 outpatients. Matano said since maternity was rehabilitated the number of patients has gone up as more women and residents throng the facility to get healthcare services. He, however, calls upon the county and CDAC to help increase the working force since the number of clients is growing big each day. The medic said the facility is being operated by one nurse and a clinical officer who have to move all around to attend to other patients. He said sometimes they have to temporarily paralyse activities in one session to effectively continue with other services. The residents also want the county government to put up streetlights and improve all roads heading toward the dispensary for easy access and transportation. Msambweni CDAC chairperson Mshenga Rugha said the projects have helped improve the standards of living of the local people. He said they normally conduct their affairs through public participation before embarking on any project.  (edited by Amol Awuor)