Some education stakeholders have asked the national government to rescind the intention of increasing fees to enable children from poor families to access higher education. The presidential working party on education reforms recommended an increment of fees paid in higher learning institutions to help them stay afloat financially. The taskforce, which presented its report to President William Ruto, has also recommended a raft of measures aimed at improving the quality of higher education in the country. But some education stakeholders want the government not to implement the recommendations on grounds that they will sideline children from poor families. Speaking during the fifth graduation ceremony of Mawego Technical Training Institute in Homa Bay, Kuppet secretary general Akelo Misori, MPs Tom Odege (Nyatike) and Adipo Okuome (Karachuonyo)  asked the government to suspend the intention. Head of Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) Foundation Caroline Wanjeri was present. Misori argued that the escalated fees will cause a huge burden on parents and bar such children from accessing education in higher institutions. He said parents are undergoing serious economic burden hence they should be cushioned from the hiked fees. “Many Kenyans are not happy with the government's intention to increase university fees by 200 per cent. Parents are already burdened and can’t afford to pay it,” Misori said. The trade unionist asked members of parliament to come up with legislation that prevents the government from increasing the fees for universities and colleges. “Let MPs come out to rescue parents from the looming burden,” Misori said. Odege argued that only ten per cent of students can afford the escalated fees in universities because they hail from financially well-off families. He said that doing so will cause inequality in the acquisition of higher education by many students whose families are challenged financially. Education has been said as an equalizer for children of the poor and children of the rich. “Implementing this is tantamount to denying children from poor families from accessing education,” Odege said. The MP pledged to present a motion in parliament to compel the government not to increase fees in universities. Many Kenyans are undergoing economic difficulties and increasing fees would worsen the situation. “The government should make education affordable hence I am planning to take the matter to parliament to salvage the situation,” Odege added. They also called on the government to ensure students graduating from technical institutions are accorded working tools to enable students to get money after graduation. Wanjeri said they are providing their TTI-sponsored students with tools. They undertake it through a programme known as Tujiajiri (let us employ). The foundation sponsored more than 300 students at Mawego TTI and 150 of them graduated on Friday. “KCB Foundation sponsors students in various TTIs to empower them. We provide them with tools of the trade to enable them to become job creators,” Wanjeri said. A total of 2,462 students graduated with artisan, certificate, diploma and higher national diploma. The graduation ceremony was presided over by the Director of Technical Education Tom Mulati.