Eleven people were on Thursday arrested after they presented forged academic documents during a staff audit in Homa Bay county. Price Waterhouse Coopers (PwC) was contracted by the county government to rid the county payroll of ghost workers. The audit which started last month is being conducted in three phases; verification of employee payroll data, review of the organisation structure and skills assessment and review of human resource policies, practices and procedures. There was also a physical headcount of all employees, study of employees’ bio data and academic and professional qualifications. Wanga said the county government recognises its staff as the most important resource and its success depends on its human resource. “It’s our desire to have a workforce that can pursue excellence and give the best service to the people of Homa Bay. The process will lead to immediate reduction of costs and increase levels of efficiency, productivity, competitiveness and improve the general wellbeing of staff,” Wanga said. Some of the documents needed from the employees were appointment letter, identity card (ID), letter of workstation and salary account details among others. It is against this backdrop that the eleven people were found with fake appointment letters and workstation letters. They were nabbed at a cyber café in Homa Bay town following a tip off from members of the public. The detectives liaised with some officials from the county government. Speaking after the arrest, Homa Bay government spokesperson Rachael Ogutu and her communication and governance counterpart Mercy Osewe and said the suspects went against the Integrity Act. Police took a computer which was allegedly being used to produce the documents. “The suspects must have been having requisite employment documents. They were found having forged some documents to secure their positions in the ongoing audit,” Osewe said. She insisted that they will continue with the forensic audit of the payroll to ensure they reduce the current wage bill. “We suspect they are part of the ghost workers in the payroll,” Osewe said. Ogutu called on residents to cooperate with them eliminate ghost workers in the county. “There is need for meritocracy in hiring workers because this will enable them deliver services effectively,” Ogutu said. The suspects are being detained at the Homa Bay police station for interrogation before they are arraigned.