The open defiance by Azimio MPs against the outfit's stance not to associate with the Kenya Kwanza regime is all part of the script of a Ruto-Raila alliance, former MP Kabando wa Kabando now claims. In a series of tweets Monday evening, the former Mukurweini lawmaker claimed, without evidence, that the Azimio leader is in fact in talks with the President. "Making this observation without fear, favour, bias, or prejudice," Kabando stated. "Ruto is baiting Azimio while Raila is on his way to Parliament via Ruto's sly constitutional amendments. Ruto and Raila in the plot; secret talks. High voltage Palace conspiracy against gullible, suffering Kenyans," he added. President William Ruto 0n December 10, 2022, wrote to Parliament through Speaker Moses Wetang'ula requesting the House to institute a raft of constitutional amendments to among other things, create the office of the Official Opposition. In the letter copied to Senate Speaker Amason Kingi, Ruto argued that the creation of the office would recognise the overall leader of the minority party and deepen democracy and institutionalise governance. The President argued that the shift to the Presidential System and the exclusion of presidential candidates from simultaneously contesting parliamentary seats excluded the minority side of the legislature from a meaningful political role. "The consequence is that the overall leader of the minority side is excluded from meaningful political participation,” Ruto said. Kabando insinuated that the envoy role Ruto assigned his predecessor Uhuru Kenyatta immediately after taking the oath of office on September 13, 2022, is part of his power moves to ensure leading leaders of the Opposition hold positions of influence. "Uhuru Special Envoy. Ruto President. Raila 'PM' via Bunge slot. Amiable Musalia is Premier CS. Soft Kalonzo Senior Envoy, shortly," he said. Kabando's claims, if true, throw the alleged political musical chairs deeper into a maze of confusion considering Raila's lieutenants in Parliament already shot down Ruto's push to amend the Constitution. On February 15, Opposition MPs vehemently rejected calls to amend the Constitution in what appeared as an act of revenge against Ruto's opposition to the Building Bridges Initiative. The Azimio team claimed on the floor of the House that the President cannot initiate amendments to the Constitution through a popular initiative, something the said the Supreme Court already pronounced itself on during the BBI ruling. “Three of the proposals by President William Ruto to Parliament would require a referendum. They are beyond the contemplation of Parliament only even if we have two-thirds,” Rarieda MP Otiende Amollo said. But Kabando held that the open rebellion by Azimio MPs in ODM and Jubilee is paving the way for Raila's entry into government. "Already, RAO's curtain raisers aka "rebels" led by an ODM Senator in, while UK's proxies via Jubilee "rebels" clearing dew," he said. "2005 ODM big5 reunites? he posed. In recent days, nine ODM MPs and 32 Jubilee lawmakers have met President Ruto at State House in what they said was 'following up on development projects.' Interestingly, Raila's Lang'ata MP Felix Odiwuor, popularly known as Jalang'o, and his rural Bondo MP, Gideon Ochanda, were part of the delegation. Others were Senator Tom Ojienda, Mark Nyamita (Uriri), Caroli Omondi (Suba South), Elisha Odhiambo (Gem), Paul Abuor (Rongo) and Walter Owino (Awendo). Raila in turned the hit on the rebel MPs telling them to shape up or ship out, accusing the legislators of betraying Azimio's push for electoral justice and democracy. “In this struggle, we shall not tolerate acts that amount to a betrayal of the dreams and aspirations of the people of Kenya,” Azimio said in a statement. And even as the ODM initiated the process to kick out the rebel MPs from the party, the legislators in yet another show of defiance met with Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua on Wednesday last week at Harambee House Annex, Nairobi. Whether or not Kabando's foresight on the alleged high-stakes political game holds water is a matter only time will tell.