Kirinyaga MCAs on Tuesday adopted a motion that seeks to compel the county government to come up with programmes to end FGM. Some of the proposed programmes include enlightening the community on the risks of FGM, and shaming, arrest and prosecution of perpetrators. Others are the involvement of elders and religious leaders in the war on FGM and aggressive campaigns to create awareness on the rights of girls. Karumandi MCA Caroline Muriithi said the outlawed practice has rapidly and clandestinely gained acceptance in Mwea, Ndia and other rural areas in the county. “The practice is hidden from many due to the clandestine nature in which it is practiced. The newest is 'holiday circumcision' where participating parents send their daughters to the village to be circumcised during school holidays,” she said. Muriithi, who sponsored the motion, said FGM has left a trail of devastation and trauma in many girls and women’s lives. She said FGM usually leads to health complications in women among them painful menstruation, transmission of STIs, complications during childbirth and death due to excessive bleeding. Muriithi said FGM is a dream killer that cuts short the education, career and leadership aspirations of girls. “There are harrowing tales of girls being tied down with their legs apart, mouths clamped and women sitting on them as the cut is administered,” she said. “Weirdly, this is a custom they say is designed to control sexual desire in women.” Nominated MCA Lucy Njeri said the practice should be eliminated as it strips women of their dignity and pride. Her nominated counterpart Irene Gathuku said it is unfortunate that women are still being subjected to the painful and shameful practice. She urged men leaders to be at the forefront in the war on FGM. Tebere MCA Peter Karenga said FGM belittles women and girls and many lack the confidence to tap into their unexplored potential. He promised to join hands with grassroots leaders and residents to end the female cut. His Murinduko counterpart Charles Nyamu said society should not condone such retrogressive practices that expose women and girls to danger. MCA Jane Wambu said circumcised girls and women suffer stigma and low self-esteem. Kerugoya MCA Eric Muchina urged residents to be on the lookout and refrain from being recruited into misleading cultural sects that advocate illegal practices.