Kibera Black Stars dropped third in the FKF National Super League following a 1-0 loss to Gusii FC at Gusii Stadium on Sunday. Kibera were dislodged by Murang’a Seal, who edged Naivas FC 2-0 for second place. At Gusii Stadium, defender and Gusii skipper Wycliffe Nyangechi scored the lone goal through a deflected free kick. It was sweet revenge for Gusii on behalf of fellow Kisii-based side Shabana, who lost 1-0 to Kibera last week. Despite the defeat, the second of the season, Kibera coach Evans Omondi remains positive of hitting their target; promotion. “This is a minor setback in our push to qualify to the Kenyan Premier League. We remain firmly in the race for promotion to the top tier, our target this season,” said the tactician. “The game was okay but officiating was not up to standard. We conceded a clear goal and I can only blame my players. I concede defeat and turn my focus on the next game, against Migori Youth.” Gusii assistant coach Calvins Ochieng’ said: “It was a tough game but the boys stepped up their game. I want to thank the fans for turning up in large numbers. They motivated the players.” After surrendering their unbeaten record last week, Murang’a Seal returned to winning ways at St Sebastian Park through goals from Eric Balecho and veteran John Kiplangat. Seal have 21 points, Kibera are on 20 while Gusii moved to fourth on the log with 18. Shabana lead the standings with 25 points from 10 games. The Glamour Boys were not in action this weekend. At the Moi Stadium in Kisumu, hosts Kisumu All Stars thrashed Mwatate 5-0. Japheth Odoke grabbed a brace as Bruce Oduor, Laban Otieno, Chrispine Ochieng scoring a goal apiece for the Blue Eagles. Struggling Vihiga United held hosts Silibwet Leons to a barren draw at Bomet Stadium while Mombasa Elite Academy beat hosts SS Assad 2-1 at Shamu grounds in Kwale County. Beja Nyamawi scored for SS Assad in the 21st minute to give the hosts a 1-0 lead at the break. The visitors had to wait until the 75th minute when Emmanuel Lunalo equalised. Johnstone Majabe scored the winner five minutes later. At Ildamat playground, a 10-man Kajiado FC recorded a rare win after beating Mara Sugar 2-1. Enoch Ouma and James Mutuku scored for the hosts while Victor Ngume was on target for the visitors.