Tanzanian actress Jacqueline Wolper has come out to defend her husband Rich Mtindo following claims that he sired a child out of wedlock. Blogs in Tanzania have been spreading rumours that Mtindo has a child with another woman. According to the rumour mills, the child is thought to have been sired while Mtindo was dating the Bongo movie actress. Rich Mtindo and Wolper got married last November in a lavish ceremony. Speaking about their union and love story, Wolper narrated how the two met, lost each other but eventually found each other again when they were both in a better state. "We started seeing each other in 2016, I wronged him and we went our separate ways, she said. "But he never resented me. After getting into several relationships, we met again in 2020 when both of us were single.” The couple has two children together but it seems Mtindo is a father of three if the claims are anything to go by. Addressing claims that her husband has a secret child with another woman, the actress said she knew nothing of the sort. She added that either way her husband was healthy and capable of siring children and that wasn't a bad thing. “Regarding the issue of a third child with someone else, I can’t speak on that because I know nothing about it," Wolper said. "Besides, a child is innocent. He is a man, if he gave me two kids, what can stop him from having a third?” She said people should wait for her husband’s side of the story. “If there is a child out there it will be revealed soon. But I must say as a married woman that is an issue I can’t comment much on because I know the pain of bringing forth a child,” Wolper said. On what she would do if the reports turn out to be true, the actress said that she will not expend energy on matters her husband had not confided in her nor publicly addressed. Wolper also said she will not question her husband on the rumours and will let him talk about whatever he saw fit. “I won’t make decisions on issues my husband hasn’t spoken to me about, neither will I waste my time asking," she said. "If the day comes and he feels I need to know something, then that is when I will let you guys know what I will have decided.”