Expelled Kanu secretary general Nick Salat was accorded a fair hearing before the decision to oust him was reached, Gideon Moi's Kanu party has said. It says Salat was invited to appear before the disciplinary panel but instead gave it a wide berth. "The party accorded Salat a fair hearing in adherence to the rules of natural justice," reads a statement signed by George Wainana, the National Executive Director. Wainana pointed out that contrary to his letter of resignation, Salat opted to ignore the internal dispute resolution mechanism and chose the court of public. Salat tendered his resignation on February 17, 2023. "It is in my position that my purported dismissal from the position of Secretary General as communicated through the press was unlawful and against the rules of natural justice," Salat said in a letter dated February 17, 2023. He added, "However, and pursuant to section 14 of the Political Parties Act, I hereby with a heavy heart but with a clear conscience, tender my resignation from the Kanu party effective the date specified hereunder." He addressed it to Kanu National Executive Council (NEC), party chair Gideon Moi and the Registrar of Political Parties. A meeting held in Mombasa recently chaired by Moi resolved that Salat be immediately expelled from the party on claims of gross misconduct and violation of the party constitution. Salat was suspended from the party on December 15 following a National Executive Council (NEC) meeting in Nakuru. On Friday, Salat stormed the party offices in Kilimani and repainted some sections of the building applying the yellow colors associated with President William Ruto's UDA party. The former SG has already pledged support to Ruto. But, the party downplayed this terming it “desperate theatrics” and that the former SG should move on. "Salat should stop acting like a deeply jilted lover and accept the reality of the moment that he was kicked out of his position for justifiable reasons which he could not put up a defence against through the appropriate avenues provided under the law," Wainana said. "We wish to bring to the attention of Kenyans that KANU is no longer headquartered at the aforementioned premises having vacated it on 31st December 2022 and temporarily moved to one of its auxiliary offices in town."