The Taita Taveta county has been earmarked among the counties targeted for the urban forestry development pilot project, Forestry Principal Secretary Ephantus Kimotho has revealed. The PS said the project is aimed at improving livelihoods through job creation. Kimotho asked the county to set aside land for the project in a bid to build resilience towards climate change in the ASAL county. Speaking during a meeting with Governor Andrew Mwadime at Mwatate on Thursday, Kimotho said the ministry is working with development partners to implement the project in select counties. “Selected counties are set to propagate at least 2 billion seedlings from at least 20,000 schools across the country. This is a nature-based enterprise for not only behavioural change but also boosting the economy,” the PS said. He said the state department of Forestry will recruit at least 10,000 green army teams who will be trained to take care of more than one billion seedlings set to be planted at chief's offices countrywide. He said hundreds of youths are targeted in the project in a bid to create employment and help the country fight food insecurity and build resilience against climate change. The mapping exercise for areas targeted in the reforestation campaign will be spearheaded by county commissioners. Kimotho further stressed on the need for counties to re-establish county implementation committees to help coordinate activities related to climate change. The pilot project targets more than 10,000 hectares for commercial forest promotion in the county. Upon commencing the project, the PS said, the programme will oversee the training of Kenya Forest Services foresters and offer technical support for selected farmers and organisations. Further, it will establish demonstration woodlots of commercial forest among others. Governor Mwadime said that his administration remains keen to commercialise forests in the region, assuring the PS of his unwavering support. Mwadime urged young people to take up agricultural activities and tree planting as a source of livelihood. “This project will help create job opportunities for the young people in the county. Youths are better placed to benefit from the multimillion project,” the county boss said. He further requested the state department of forestry and the JICA Forestry Cooperation to assist his administration finalise the development of a county forestry bill and a policy for sustainable forests management. Mwadime cited perennial bushfires, illegal harvesting of forest products and inadequate capacity building to forest conservatives as major challenges facing the forest department. He said only 24 forests in the county are gazetted out of the 68 forests.