A task force report has recommended the reopening of Kenya Flourspar Company in Kerio Valley, which ceased operations six years ago. Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Wisley Rotich appointed a 17-member team on the revival of the once giant fluorspar miller whose shutdown because of market problems rendered more than 3,000 people jobless. The closure also ravaged the lives of more than 30,000 people who indirectly depended on operations of the firm. The firm was valued at more than Sh7 billion at the time of its closure. The task force, which presented its report to Rotich, has also called for the compensation of more than 1,400 people whose land was taken by the mining firm when it was established. Chairman of the team Joseph Kandie said the closure of the company had affected the economy of the region and noted that its reopening would create jobs for the many youths who are unemployed. The county chief formed a task force last September to look into the possibility of reopening the company that was privately owned. The task force carried out public participation especially on possible reopening of the mining factory and compensation, an issue which has been pending since the 1970s. While receiving the report in, the governor said he would forward it to the Mining Cabinet Secretary for possible implementation. The company ended operations in 2016 and decided not to renew its license, citing a prolonged global slump in commodity prices and high cost of operations. “There were many people working in the factory before its closure. Its closure led to massive economic losses by businessmen and mama mbogas who often sold their wares to staff at the factory,” Rotich said. He said transporters who had bought lorries on credit fell into depression as their lands or property were auctioned by financial institutions. The lorries were contracted to ferry the fluorspar minerals from Kerio Valley to a nearby Kenya Railways station for onward movement to Mombasa for export. The governor said many desperate youth had been forced to engage in crime due to joblessness. The report also recommends the release of an audit done by the National Land Commission to establish the compensation status of land by the company. It also recommends the NLC to look into calls by the residents to revert unused land to the owners and calls for an Environmental Impact Assessment by Nema to check on pollution. Other recommendations include alleged police harassment and previous cases be handled by the Independent Policy Oversight Authority. Residents also demanded payment of dues to teaching and non-teaching staff of Flourspar Primary School and that the school be handed to the Ministry of Education. Leaders from the area welcomed the team’s recommendation, terming the reopening of the mining company as "long overdue". Soy North MCA Simon Chepseba and his Soy South counterpart Jonah Tanui said since the company closed, poverty levels have gone up in the area because the firm had been a major employer.  (edited by Amol Awuor)