The Council of Governors (CoG) is upbeat that it will resolve the revenue allocation impasse between counties and the Treasury. The Council welcomed the ongoing talks with the Executive while stating that it would push for an increase in the share of the revenue from the national government. This emerged when the governors met President William Ruto and his Deputy Rigathi Gachagua at Enashipai Spa in Naivasha on Friday. In the last couple of months, the CoG and the Treasury have fallen out on revenue allocation with the former demanding Sh425 billion against the latter’s offer of Sh383 billion. Addressing the press, Council chairperson Ann Waiguru said that they were keen to resolve the impasse around the revenue allocation. She was quick to add that they had agreed with the government to withdraw all pending cases in courts and seek a way of amicably resolving them. “We have also agreed to enact laws to enhance devolution while a committee has been formed to look into State Corporations that are also carrying out devolved functions,” she said. Waiguru lauded the President for agreeing to meet the governors adding that issues of health, agriculture, water and affordable housing were discussed in the meeting. According to Transnzoia Governor George Natembeya, the CoG had progressive engagement with the national government on the issue of revenue allocation. Speaking on the sidelines of the meeting, he exuded confidence that they would arrive at a win-win situation at the end of the deliberations. “The Council is demanding Sh425 billion against the Treasury’s offer of Sh383 billion but we are optimistic that this can be resolved,” he said. He added that they had also discussed the issue of subsidised fertiliser, and running of ECDEs and TVETs with a common view of serving the public better. Kakamega Governor Fernades Baraza echoed the sentiments on revenue allocation adding that there was a light at the end of the tunnel. “The President has also directed the Intergovernmental Relations Technical Committee to make sure that all pending functions are transferred to counties within six months,” he said. Baraza also condoled the families that lost their relatives after two gold shafts collapsed in Shinyalu killing three and injuring seven others. “We have formed a multi-agency team to look into the issue of safety and licencing around the gold shafts which act as a source of livelihood for many families,” he said. (Edited by Tabnacha O)