St. Peter’s school in Kisii is in a celebratory mood after three of their students qualified to represent the country at East Africa under 20/18 athletics championships in Dar es Salam, Tanzania next month. Beatrice Nyanchoka, Mercy Ondieki and Sharon Kayaga made the cut  during the national trials staged at the Nyayo stadium over the weekend. Nyanchoka won the 400m title ahead of compatriot Bosibori to earn the slot. Moraa was victorious in the 100m race in under 18 to make the automatic slot. Moraa achieved her feat after clocking 12.47 ahead of jackline Onguyo (12.56) with Selfa Ajambo completing the podium in 12.99. The 400m winner clocked 56.03 beating her compatriot Bosibori to second in 59.17 as Magdalene Chelangat from St joseph settled for third place in 1:00.46. Head coach Charles Onwonga said that the athlete’s prowess has been championed by good training and discipline to ensure that their talents are top notch. “As a school and camp, we are happy that we have managed to field these three athletes into the team for next month's assignment," Onwonga said. "As a coach, we are happy that our fruits are being realised at the junior level. The success is coming because as a coach, I am working well with the school management to see our students shine,” Onwonga added. He further pointed out that he is working closely with the school principal Elijah Maeri. “We started the camp in 2018. The idea was to bring students for training during holidays in a bid to nurture their talent. It's all about training and discipline because as a school, we don’t have many restrictions on how students enter the camp." Mr. Dennis Odongo, a teacher at the institution reckons having a camp in school helps nurture students’ talents early enough. “Some athletes wait until they have finished school for them to realise that they can run.  At Keberesi we exactly place our athletes to the races they can run in form one and they fit in well." He said that girls are shining in sports more than boys because boys are easily swayed by money unlike girls. “If girls have decided to do something they do it wholeheartedly. Boys like money a lot and are not time conscious. Gilbert Nyamau missed to compete at Nyayo because he did not show up at the call room early enough,” said Odongo. However, he said that they will continue supporting Nyamau’s talent in future. “Nyamau won in Mumias and Kisumu and he was the most potential athlete in the under 20. He still has a chance to represent the country before graduating to senior. We have the Africa under 20/18 coming up,” he said.