 BY DANN O’WERRE Dubai-based Rose Ouma has been called up to the national team training camp, Kenya Basketball Federation assistant secretary Angela Luchivya has revealed. Luchivya said Ouma, who captained the team to the FIBA AfroBasket in 2021, has been released by her employers. The playmaker missed out on the provisional list of 28 players released by KBF but Luchivya said the coaches felt there was need to have her in the team. Kenya are preparing for the AfroBasket/All Africa Games qualifiers set for Kampala, Uganda between February 14 and 19. She also confirmed that Mercy Wanyama, who plies her trade with Spanish side AD Cortegada and Victoria Reynolds, who is based in Portugal with Imortal Tears, will be available. “I’ve been in touch with both Vicky and Mercy’s club directors and they are ready to release them after their games on February 4 and 5 respectively,” said Luchivya. “At least Vicky and Mercy are fully confirmed. I am Just waiting for KBF to get their tickets.” Luchivya said Wanyama, who has already reported for training, is due to travel for her weekend game before returning back home to rejoin the side. The diaspora players, Luchivya said, are expected to start coming in after Sunday, when the FIBA international window opens. Luchivya disclosed that she is also following up on two college players, Felmas Koranga (Troy University) and Eunice Silong (Bryant and Stratton College) in the USA. “We are still in discussion with Silong and Felmas because of the hectic university games schedule right now,” she said. Another diaspora player in the KBF radar is the lanky Ruth Mbugua, a student at Danville Christian Academy, USA. Meanwhile, KBF has handed a late call up to Equity Bank Hawks’ guard Rachel Akinyi. Akinyi was instrumental in the bankers’ 40-38 triumph over Zetech University Sparks over the weekend. Luchivya said the players have had two training sessions daily since last week, early in the morning and another in the evening. Kenya are the current Zone Five title holders, having beaten Egypt 99-83 in the regional finals in Kigali, Rwanda two years ago. However, tables were turned at the continental final round as Egypt finished sixth and Kenya ninth. Teams expected to parade in Kampala include Burundi, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Kenya, Somalia, South Sudan, Sudan, Tanzania and host Uganda.