Team Kenya woke up to a major blow after news emerged that Beatrice Chepkoech will not feature in the women’s 10km as earlier envisaged during this afternoon’s World Cross Country Championships here in Bathurst, Australia. Chepkoech has been locked out on a technicality, owing to her entry into conflicting events. Chepkoech had earlier been shifted from relays (2km) to the long race (women’s 10km ) but according to coach Julius Kirwa, they realized late that there is a rule barring her from taking part. Kirwa said according to World Athletics rules, an individual featuring in the 10km can be allowed to take part in the 2km race but not vice versa.  “ This means if you are featuring in 2km, you can’t take part in the 10km race but an individual taking part in the long race is allowed to come down to 2km,” he noted. He said he is confused with the rule but has no choice but to abide by it. “ How is it that a 10km runner can take part in 2km and not vice versa? he asked. Kirwa regretted that the latest move may have an effect on the team because Chepkoech is currently in top shape and she is the strongest of all. “ We took Chepkoech from the relay team because she finished third and all along she has been training with the senior women’s 10km team,” he said. He said it was unfortunate that this is happening when they are already here in Bathurst. “ It is sad that Chepkoech will not be able to compete. We all know that she is enjoying top form and I fear it may impact negatively on her morale,” he added. The tactician, however, explained that the relay team is intact with Brenda Chebet, Miriam Cherop, and Emily Chebet flying the country’s flag. In the men’s cadre, Emmanuel Wanyonyi will team up with Daniel Mung’uti and Mathew Kipsang. Emily is also taking part in the senior women’s 10km race as per the rule. “ She is technically a 10km runner and therefore is allowed to feature in the 2km race,” said Kirwa. Others in the women’s 10km are —Beatrice Chebet, Cintia Chepng’eno, Edinah Jebitok, Grace Nawowuna, Agnes Ngetich, and Betty Teuei. Kirwa said apart from Chepkoech, the rest of the team is intact and looking forward to good results. He said he had already surveyed the course and all looks fine. He, however, noted that their biggest challenge would be the hot weather conditions. “ We are running in the afternoon and I am told the conditions could rocket to 36 degrees Celsius,” he noted. The head coach, however, assured them that they had prepared for this kind of condition when they were at Kigari Teachers Training College and there should be no cause for alarm. He said the hilly situation on the course is nothing compared to what they prepared for in Kigari. He cited Ethiopia and Uganda as their biggest threat in the senior men’s race. “We have Selemon Barega from Ethiopia and then we have Joshua Cheptegei and Jacob Kiplimo from Uganda, who is posing a major challenge but I believe we are up to the task,” he added.