Former CS Fred Matiang’i legal team is expected to file a contempt of court application against DCI for forcefully breaking into his home. Police on Wednesday broke into the house of former CS Fred Matiang'i's home looking for CCTV footage on the alleged home raid. DCI Mohamed Amin said they obtained a search order to get CCTV recordings from the home of the former Interior CS Matiang'i to establish the facts surrounding the earlier alleged raid. Jubilee wrangles Jubilee disciplinary committee to hold a sitting on show cause against ousted leaders. Suspended SG Jeremiah Kioni and vice chair David Murathe are to face the disciplinary committee. The registrar of parties Anne Nderitu had asked the new officials led by  EALA MP Kanini Kega to observe the party constitution in the disciplinary process. Sentence in the murder of Venezuelan envoy The mitigation and sentencing of Dwight Saragay after he and three others were found guilty of the murder of Venezuelan envoy Olga Fonseca will be heard on Thursday. Fonseca was found murdered in her Runda residence in Nairobi. She was strangled to death on July 26, 2012, less than two weeks after arriving in Kenya to head the diplomatic mission. She replaced former Ambassador Gerardo Silva who was facing allegations of sexual harassment by male workers from the embassy. Health migration policy The Ministry of Health will conduct a validation meeting of the draft migration policy to ensure a coordinated health workforce migration to other countries. Grants for CHW The national government agrees to support counties through conditional grants amounting to Sh2.7 billion for three years to support 100,000 community health workers. MPs meet CS Machogu The Committee on Implementation will on Thursday meet with the Education CS Ezekiel Machogu. The meeting will be to consider the implementation status of the report of the Departmental Committee on Education and Research on a Public Petition regarding the repeal of sections of the Universities’ Act 2012 pertaining to the Elections of University Student Leaders.