Google Arts and Culture has unveiled an online exhibition for the Maasai community in Kenya. Dubbed “Maasai Wisdom of a Community," Google said that it aims to shine a light on the nomadic community which boasts of a rich cultural heritage. Google EA country director Agnes Gathaiya said that the online exhibition gives a glimpse into the livelihoods, architecture, craftsmanship, jewelry, folklore, language, mythology as well as rituals as practiced by the Maasai community. “I invite you to discover more about the Maasai in East Africa, and learn about their legendary Maasai warriors like Senteu, Mbatian, and Lenana,” Gathaiya said. The Maasai community has lived in East Africa for hundreds of years. Their signature identity easily recognised world wide include the iconic red of their Shuka cloth and the “adumu” dance ritual (a leaping dance performed by the Maasai Moran warriors). The Google project includes five exhibitions about the Maasai community and legends at the National Museums of Kenya. Google said this will enable audiences from across the world to learn more about the community’s rich cultural heritage through over 430 high-resolution images and over 55 exhibits. Tourism, Wildlife, and Heritage CS Peninah Malonza said that the online exhibition is an immersive experience into the heritage and wisdom of one of Africa’s most resilient and iconic communities. "This body of work is yet another demonstration of how collaborating on digital transformation is making Kenya’s culture and heritage universally accessible while preserving it for future generations and driving greater interest in tourism." The online archive provides visitors with different ways to know more about the Maasai. This includes learning the Maa language through audio-narrated guide on the Maasai way of life. The exhibition also walks one through sustainable architecture practices and the symbolism behind the colours and patterns of the Maasai jewelry and the history behind the material used. Gathaiya said that people from all over the world have been curious to explore their way of living. “We are excited to be able to showcase their heritage on our Google Arts and Culture platform,” she said. The project was commissioned by Google Arts and Culture together with Project Fuel, a non-profit working with local communities and the National Museums of Kenya. The project also features seven exhibits on Maasai folklore and mythology and 29 illustrations completed by Indian artist Advithi Emmi.