Drama unfolded Saturday in Kiamanyeki village, Mwea during the burial ceremony of two brothers who were killed two weeks ago along the border of Embu and Kirinyaga counties. All had started well as the master of ceremony ushered in speaker after speaker to eulogize the departed souls, until a group of young mourners abruptly disrupted the programme. Drama started when one of the local leaders during his speech demanded the immediate arrest of one of the key suspects. It is at that point that the mourners went wild and uncontrollable and started chanting justice slogans as they drew closer to the tent sheltering the coffins. Efforts to salvage the event proved futile, as the young mourners proceeded to unceremoniously grab the coffins bearing the remains of the two brothers and demanded a stop to the event. It was then unanimously decided that the burial event should be postponed until all culprits are arrested and firmly dealt with by the law. The charged mourners then proceeded to carry the two coffins to the Wang’uru police station which is approximately 10 kilometres from the burial site and where they would then leave the caskets. Police who were on stand-by reined in and attempted to restore order and calmness. The agitated mourners however overpowered them thus prompting them to lobby tear canisters to scatter them. Senator Kamau Murango overtly condemned the murder of the two Joseph Ndung’u 35, and Kennedy Gitau 28. “It is unfortunate that none of the officials drawn from the investigations and police department showed up to explain to us how far they have probed the matter. We will not watch as our people are killed and the culprits roam with no action taken against them,” he said. He called on Interior Cabinet Secretary Kithure Kindiki to order the immediate transfer of senior administration and police officials in the county. Responding to the incident, Kirinyaga county commissioner Moses Ivuto called for patience from the residents saying he is constantly in touch with the Embu security officials who are carrying out the investigations. “The alleged crime did not happen within my jurisdiction, the best I can do is to liaise with the Embu side and so far they have assured us that investigations are ongoing. I would appeal to Kirinyaga residents to uphold peace and give the security agencies time to carry out their investigations,” he said. “Meanwhile, I would also call on them to fast-track the process so that we can be able to put the matter to rest.” Ivuto said the government would continue engaging communities living along the border of the two counties through peace meetings to listen to their issues and sensitize them on the need to uphold peace and live in harmony. Tebere MCA Peter Karinga called for the immediate arrest of all implicated suspects and their subsequent arraignment in a court of law. “We have all agreed to postpone the burial to allow justice to take its course by ensuring that all culprits are arrested and the state institute charges against them,” he said. "We want to appeal to the state to intervene and ensure that all administration officials loath in their duties are transferred expeditiously.” Woman rep Njeri Maina while speaking at another event condemned the killings saying it is extremely uncouth, illegal and unpalatable for citizens to take the law into their hands. Maina called for speedy investigations as she pledged to follow up on the matter with the legal and justice affairs departmental committee, of which she is a member. Ndung’u and Gitau were allegedly lynched and bodies set ablaze as they were responding to a rescue call from their cousins who were in the hands of the charged locals for allegedly stealing livestock. Family spokesperson Peter Ng’ang’a eulogized the two as extremely ambitious and hardworking. At a prime age, he said they had already initiated a project to build their elderly parents a better house. He intimated that one of the brothers had already secured a trucking job in Qatar but with his death, that remains an aspiration that will never come to pass. Bodies of the deceased were taken back to Embu County Referral Hospital mortuary.