Your style can be identified by analysing the clothes that you wear often and you feel good in them. Your style brings out your personality. It can be described as aesthetic, unisex, trendy, creative, laidback, elegant, sentimental, stylish, or conservative. It can fall under the following styles: Romantic Feminine and delicate colours, fabric, and shapes categorize the romantic personal style. The fabric tends to be silks, linen, and cotton, they are well-cut and modest or reserved. Colours are subtle and classic that as white, navy, and pink among others. Accessories tend to be traditional and exquisite. Sleek chic This style opts for well-cut figure-flattering outfits.  Accessories are statement-making and simple. The colours are often neutral with silk, cashmere (soft wool), leather, wool, and cotton. Classic linens and silhouettes define the sleek chic look. Boho Flowing designs, earth (neutral) and vibrant colours characterize the boho style. It is inspired by Western, Southwestern, and prairie trends from the 60s and 70s. Fabric can be crocheted, synthetic, lace, and wool. It can also include detailed embroidery (stitching/needlework). Clothes fit loosely flowing away from the body.  Layered necklaces, rings, and hats are some of the accessories preferred. Casual The outfits are simple, have an easygoing attitude, and emphasize on comfort.  The fits are loose but not too loose. The fabric here includes denim, leather, lycra (tight fitting), and wool. Accessories are simple and minimal. Glam If you love body-hugging clothes, and high-quality fabrics, then your style might fall here. The spectrum of colours includes traditional hues as well as contemporary hues and patterns. Fabrics are better when shiny, they include, silk, satin, cashmere, lycra, lace and more. As for accessories think glittery jewellery, logo bags and belts, shiny metallic, and big sunglasses. You can play with extreme proportions when it comes to outfits. Minimalist Distinctive, architectural lines and silhouettes are characteristics of a minimalist look. Outfits here use fewer pieces and are put together using odd combos and shapes to make it interesting. Colours tend to be neutral or classic. Clothes fit are loose and paired with minimal jewellery. Vintage femme It appreciates curvy body shapes and emphasizes the waist. Prints, colours, and shapes of clothing tend to be from the 40s, 50s, and 60s. You can pull together a vintage-inspired outfit. Colour combinations under this style tend not to be trendy. Accessories might be basic. Editorial In this category, you have to be ready to experiment, incorporate current trends, and be confident. Bold colours, patterns, and fabrics are characteristics of the editorial style. Fabrics tend to be chiffon, leather, and sequin. You can complete the look with many or a few accessories. Androgynous In this style, you use menswear as inspiration. It can be head to toe or incorporated with some feminine wear. This does not mean you are not in tune with your feminine energy. Accessories are minimal.  Blazers, loafers, and button-up shirts are among the clothes in this style. Clothing is a looser fit. Edgy Black colour dominates the edgy style but it can also incorporate some neutral, blue or red colours. The fabric includes denim, leather, satin, cotton, and fur among others. Clothes fit under the body hugging or loose. Accessories are metallic and used in extremes either minimal or maximal. Preppy The colours tend to be bright that is red, yellow, green, and white, among others. Patterns are incorporated including striped, checkered, polka dots, and stunning florals. Clothes fit looser. Accessories can be minimal or glittery.